ORDINANCE NO. 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL AMENDING 
CHAPTER 19.50 TO THE SAN RAFAEL MUNICIPAL CODE, ENTITLED “CAMPING ON 
PUBLIC PROPERTY” REGULATING CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHIN THE 
CITY OF SAN RAFAEL 
 SECTION 1. FINDINGS 
WHEREAS, the purpose of this Ordinance is to enact regulations to address camping in or 
on public property in the City of San Rafael. The City Council has authority to adopt this 
Ordinance pursuant to the California Constitution Article XI, section 7; and  
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes that camping in the City by persons with no 
alternative shelter, and the activities often attendant with camping, have created adverse 
public health, safety, and welfare conditions for the public, including those who live in the 
City’s encampments; and  
WHEREAS, the City, along with the County of Marin and community partners, has been and 
is undertaking extensive actions to assist unsheltered persons in the City and region to find 
shelter and needed services; and 
WHEREAS, on June 28, 2024, the Supreme Court issued its decision reversing the Ninth 
Circuit Court of Appeals in Grants Pass v. Johnson finding that the City of Grants Pass had 
not violated the “Cruel and Unusual Punishments” clause of the Eighth Amendment to the 
United States Constitution by prohibiting camping on public property when the City could not 
establish that there was enough alternative shelter available to accommodate the number of 
individuals experiencing homelessness in the community; and 
WHEREAS, on July 25, 2024, Governor Gavin Newsom issued Executive Order N-1-24 
instructing State agencies to prioritize the humane removal of encampments, including 
conducting site assessments, providing advance notice, offering outreach services, and 
personal property storage for at least 60 days, and encouraging local governments to adopt 
policies consistent with the order; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes and finds that there are public health and safety 
hazards and public nuisance activities and conditions frequently associated with camping on 
public property, and that there are certain public properties where the existence of campsites 
is incompatible with the necessary use of the property by the public, or where camping 
presents unacceptable hazards and/or costs to the City’s operations and to the public; and 
WHEREAS, some unsheltered persons in the City live in temporary shelters on public 
property, such as tents and tarps, and accumulate, store, or leave behind personal property, 
garbage, waste, and biohazards; and 
WHEREAS, camping on public property can lead to damage to public property, or hindrance 
of the operation or protection of public infrastructure and utilities, creating a potential health 
and safety hazard; and 
WHEREAS, camping on public property can have a deleterious impact on the public use of 
public property, businesses, private real property, and economic development within the City; 
and 
WHEREAS, in July 2023, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2030, setting new spacing 
and density rules and other restrictions for camping on public property by persons with no

alternative shelter available; and 
WHEREAS, in the case of Boyd et al. v. City of San Rafael, N.D. Cal., Case No. 23 -cv-
04085- EMC (“Boyd”), the Court issued a Preliminary Injunction Order under which the City 
was permitted to enforce Ordinance No. 2030 under Court -modified rules which were 
operationally impractical to implement, particularly as they involved procedures to administer 
the Ordinance’s spacing and density requirements; and 
WHEREAS, in May 2024, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2035 , which modified the 
regulations adopted through Ordinance No. 2030 by allowing campsites of up to 200 square 
feet for one person and 400 square feet for up to 4 persons camping together; eliminating the 
200-foot spacing requirement; requiring a 10-foot safety clearance around each campsite and 
10-foot setbacks from other campsites, public utility infrastructure, and private real property; 
specifying enforcement notice and due process requirements; and making other language 
changes set forth in the Ordinance; and 
WHEREAS, by this Ordinance, the City Council seeks to modify the regulations adopted in 
Ordinance Nos. 2030 and 2035 to make amendments in light of the recent Supreme Court 
decision in Grants Pass v. Johnson, to clarify prohibitions against the construction of 
unpermitted structures and use of building materials for camping on public property, to 
provide additional safety setbacks from roadways, to update enforcement provisions to align 
with Governor Newsom’s Executive Order 1 -N-24, and making other language changes set 
forth in the Ordinance; and 
WHEREAS, by amending the City’s camping regulations, the City’s goal is to effectively 
regulate and enforce camping laws for the health and safety of all of the public, including 
residents who are experiencing homelessness; and 
WHEREAS, for the reasons set forth above, this Ordinance is declared by the City Council to 
be necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare; preserve public property for the 
enjoyment and safety of all members of the public; enhance and preserve the orderly 
administration and management of public property; and preserve, protect, and prevent 
damage to public resources, and the recitals above taken together constitute the City 
Council’s statement of the reasons for adopting this Ordinance. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL DOES ORDAIN 
AS FOLLOWS: 
SECTION 2. AMENDMENTS TO SAN RAFAEL MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 19.50 
Chapter 19.50 of the San Rafael Municipal Code,  entitled “Camping of Public Property” is 
hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:   
Chapter 19.50 - CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY 
 
19.50.010. - Purpose. 
 
The purposes of this chapter include but are not limited to: protecting public 
health, safety, and welfare; preserving public property for the enjoyment and 
safety of all members of the public; enhancing and preserving the orderly 
administration and management of public property; and preserving, protecting, and 
preventing damage to public resources. This chapter prohibits conduct that 
unreasonably interferes with the administration  and lawful uses of public property 
by establishing reasonable time, place, and manner conditions related to camping 
on public property.

19.50.020 - Definitions. 
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
 
A.  "Camp" or "Camping" means use of space on public property for living 
accommodation purposes such as sleeping activities, or making preparations to 
sleep (including the laying down of  bedding for the purpose of  sleeping), or  
storing personal belongings, or using any tents or shelter or other structure or 
vehicle for sleeping. The above- listed activities constitute camping when it 
reasonably appears, in light of  all the circumstances, that the  participants, in 
conducting these activities,  are using  the area  as a living  accommodation 
regardless of the nature of any other activities  in which they  may also be 
engaging. 
 
B. "Camp paraphernalia" means implements and equipment used for 
camping, including tents, cots, beds, hammocks, vehicles, other temporary 
physical shelters, tarpaulins, mattresses, sleeping bags, bedrolls, blankets, 
sheets, pillows, and cookware or cooking equipment. 
 
C. "Campsite" means the primary physical area of  occupation of  one person 
camping or up to four persons camping together, inclusive of camp facilities, 
camp paraphernalia, and personal property. 
 
D. "Open space property" means any area described in San Rafael Municipal 
Code Section 19.10.020. The city will maintain on its public website and in 
hard copy at the  City Clerk's office a map of  all open space property 
meeting this definition. 
 
E. "Playground" means an  improved outdoor area designed, equipped, and set 
aside for children's play in a park or school that is not intended for use as an 
athletic playing field or athletic court, and also includes any playground 
equipment, fall zones, surface materials, access ramps, and all areas within 
and including any designated enclosure and barriers. 
 
F.  "Public facility" means any building or structure on public property, whether 
secured, unsecured, locked, unlocked, open, or enclosed, as well as any 
area of public property enclosed by a locked fence. 
 
G. "Public property" means any real property within the jurisdiction of the City of 
San Rafael, which is owned, managed, or controlled by the City of San 
Rafael. 
 
H. "Public right-of-way" means land which by written instrument, usage or process 
of law is owned by, reserved for or dedicated to the public use for street or 
highway purposes, or other transportation purposes, whether or not such land 
is actually being used or developed specifically for those purposes. 
 
I. "Public utility infrastructure" means public bathrooms or infrastructure and 
equipment used to provide public utility services, including electricity, gas, 
water, stormwater, telecommunications, and sanitation services.

J. "School" means any public or private institution of educational learning up to 
and including grade 12. 
K. "Sidewalk" means any area in the city provided for the use of pedestrians,  
including planting areas, driveway approaches, and parking strips, between the 
public vehicular roadway and the edge of public right -of-way bordering, 
fronting, or adjacent to private real property. 
 
L. "Store" means to put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for 
safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location. 
 
M. "Vehicle" means any wheeled conveyance, whether motor -powered or self - 
propelled, and includes any trailer in tow of any size, kind, or description. 
 
19.50.030 - Prohibited Camping on Certain Public Property. 
 
A. Prohibited Camping 
 
1. Open space property. No person or persons shall camp in or on any open 
space property, or portion thereof. 
 
2. Parking garages. No person or persons shall camp in or on the 
premises of any parking garage, or portion thereof, owned or operated 
by the city. 
 
3. Public facilities. No person or persons shall camp in or on any public 
facility, or portion thereof, or in a manner that obstructs, blocks, or 
otherwise interferes with access to a public facility or private real  
property.
 
 
4. Playgrounds. No person or persons shall camp within 100 feet of any 
playground. 
 
5. Schools. No person or persons shall camp within 250 feet of the property 
boundary of any school. 
 
6. Public right-of-way and sidewalks. No person or persons shall camp in or 
on any public right -of-way or sidewalk, or  portion thereof, or  in a 
manner that obstructs, blocks, or otherwise interferes with use of or 
access to a public right-of-way or sidewalk. 
 
B. The city council or city manager may, by resolution or administrative order, 
absolutely prohibit camping, or adopt time, place, or manner conditions on 
camping, at  any time in or on one or more public properties, or  portion 
thereof.
 
 
C. The city shall maintain on its public website and in hard copy at  the city 
clerk's office a current citywide map of all public property parcels prohibited 
to camping by subsections (A)(1),  (A)(2), (A)(4),  (A)(5), and  (B) of  this 
section 19.50.030. 
 
19.50.040 - Prohibited Camping on Other Public Property; Exception.

A. As to public property not listed as prohibited for camping under Section 19.50.030, no 
person shall camp on such other public property, except as set forth below. 
 
 
B.  Time, place, and manner conditions: 
 
1. Campsite size and occupancy. 
 
a. No campsite occupied by one person shall exceed an area of 200 sq. 
ft., inclusive camp paraphernalia, and personal property. 
 
b. No campsite occupied by more than one person shall i) exceed an 
occupancy of  four persons or  ii) exceed an  area of  400 sq. ft., 
inclusive of camp paraphernalia, and personal property. 
 
c. All camp  paraphernalia, and other personal property shall be stored 
and kept within the maximum permitted campsite area. 
 
d. Items stored or discarded outside of the maximum permitted campsite 
area shall be presumed to be unattended personal property or trash or 
debris and may be stored or discarded by the city. 
e. No person shall establish or occupy more than one campsite. 
 
2. Clearance and setbacks. 
 
a.  A minimum clearance of 10 feet around all sides of any campsite 
allowed under this section shall be maintained free and clear of trash, 
debris, and personal property, including but  not limited to camp 
facilities and camp paraphernalia. Items stored or discarded within 
the 10-foot clearance area shall  be presumed to be unattended 
personal property or trash or debris and may be stored or discarded 
by the city. 
 
b. No campsite may be established or occupied within 10 feet of any 
other campsite allowed by this section, public utility infrastructure, 
or private real property, including a fence of such property. 
 
c. No campsite may be established or occupied within 5 feet of the edge 
of pavement of a roadway open to the use of the public for purposes of 
vehicular traffic. 
 
3. Unpermitted structures and building materials.  No person shall occupy, 
construct, or erect on public property, or affix or tie to public or private 
property, any building, shed, shack, fence, or other structure made of 
building material, or store any building material on public property for 
camping. For purposes of this paragraph, “building material” includes 
wood, steel, concrete, stone, brick, masonry, plastic, cement composites, 
glass, sand, or other similar material of a type and quantity normally used 
for construction purposes.

a. Exception:  Fabric tents, fabric tarps, or other similar non-permanent, 
removable items may be used for temporary shelter within a campsite, 
provided they are not affixed or tied to any public property, private real 
property, vegetation, or infrastructure, except for the use of removable 
stakes to secure the item to unimproved ground on public property. 
 
b. Exception:  Removable plastic pallets or sandbags may be used to 
temporarily raise a tent or other camp facility off of the ground, provided 
that such items are not affixed or tied to any public property, private real 
property, vegetation, or infrastructure. 
19.50.050 - Violations; Enforcement. 
 
A. In addition to enforcement as described below, the City may enforce this 
chapter pursuant to chapters 1.42, 1.44, and 1.46; provided, however, that no 
person shall be charged with a criminal violation unless their unlawful 
conduct is knowing or willful. 
 
B. The city manager or their designee shall be responsible for enforcement of 
this chapter. 
 
C. For a violation of section 19.50.030(A) -(B), the city manager or  their 
designee may require the person in violation to immediately c ease the 
prohibited camping.   
 
D. For violation of section 19.50.040(B)(1)-(2), related to the size, occupancy, 
and clearance or setbacks of a campsite, the person camping shall be 
given 
48 hours to come into compliance with this chapter. The city 
manager or their designee shall provide upon request a physical 
demarcation of the allowed boundary to assist the  person camping to  
comply with this chapter. 
 
E. Unpermitted structure. For a violation of section 19.50.040( B)(3), related to 
an unpermitted structure, the structure shall be tagged with a notice to 
remove the structure from public property within 48 hours. If the noticed 
structure is not removed from public property within 48 hours of notice, the 
city manager or their designee may immediately remove such structure and 
restore the public property. 
  
F. Exigent Circumstances. For a violation of section 19.50.040( B)(1)-(2) 
whereby there is an imminent threat to life, health, safety or infrastructure 
such that exigent circumstances  require immediate action, the City Manager 
or their designee may require the person in violation to immediately cure the 
violation. The City Manager or their designee shall provide as much advance 
notice as reasonable under the circumstances.   
 
19.50.060 - Conflict with Other Regulations. 
 
To the extent that there is any conflict with any other provisions of this code, the 
standards and regulations of this chapter shall prevail. 
 
SECTION 3. COMPLIANCE WITH CEQA

This Ordinance was assessed in accordance with the authority and criteria contained in 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the State CEQA Guidelines, and the 
environmental regulations of the city. The city council hereby finds that under section 
15061(b)(3) of the State CEQA Guidelines, this Ordinance is exempt from the 
requirements of CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that the provisions 
contained herein would not have the potential for causing a significant effect on the 
environment. It also finds the Ordinance is exempt from the requirements of CEQA 
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines sections 15307 and 15308 as an action by a regulatory 
agency taken to protect the environment and natural resources. 
 
SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY 
Every section, paragraph, clause, and phrase of this Ordinance is hereby declared to 
be severable. If for any reason, any section, paragraph, clause, or phrase is held to be 
invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the 
validity or constitutionality of the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or phrases, 
and the remaining portions or this Ordinance shall continue in full force and effect 
unless amended or modified by the city. 
 
SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE AND PUBLICATION 
This Ordinance shall be published once, in full or in summary form, before its final 
passage, in a newspaper of general circulation, published and circulated in the City of 
San Rafael and shall be in full force and effect 30 days after its adoption. If published in 
summary form, the summary shall also be published within fifteen (15) days after the 
adoption, together with the names of those Councilmembers voting for or against same, 
in a newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the City of San Rafael, 
County of Marin, State of California.  
 
Within fifteen (15) days after adoption, the City Clerk shall also post in the office of the 
City Clerk, a certified copy of the full text of this Ordinance along with the names of 
those Councilmembers voting for and against the Ordinance. 
 
THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE was first read and introduced at a regular meeting of 
the San Rafael City Council on the 19
th day of August 2024, and was passed and 
adopted at a regular meeting of the San Rafael City Council on the 3rd of September 
2024, by the following vote, to wit: 
 
AYES:  COUNCILMEMBERS: 
NOES:  COUNCILMEMBERS: 
ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBERS: 
 
        _______________________  
        Kate Colin, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
______________________ 
Lindsay Lara, City Clerk
