                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2024

                                     SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:45 P.M.
                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:45 P.M.
                                San Rafael Third Floor Conference Room
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/sm-2024-08-19
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 879-9873-4798#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16699009128,,87998734798# US

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             Vice Mayor Hill

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 4:46 p.m., and Vice Mayor Hill was absent. Mayor Kate
    invited public comment; however, there was none.

    1. Planning Commission Interviews
       Interview Applicants and Make Appointments to One Four-Year Term and Two Alternate
       Member Four-Year Term Licensed Architect Seats on the Planning Commission to the End of
       October 2028; And Appoint Current Planning Commissioners to Specific Seats on the
       Planning Commission to Finalize Membership on the Commission (CC)
       Recommended Action – Interview applicants and make appointments

        City Clerk Lindsay Lara presented the staff report.

        Staff responded to questions from the city council.

        The City Council interviewed the following applicants: Sharon Kovalsky, Stewart Summers
   and Donald Blayney. Jeff Kent withdrew his application.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to appoint Stewart
   Summers to the Planning Commission regular voting member seat.

   AYES:          Councilmembers:      Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:          Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:        Councilmembers:      Hill

   The City Council provided direction to staff to continue city-wide recruitment for additional
   design professional alternate member terms.

   Mayor Kate adjourned the Special meeting at 5:32 p.m.

                             REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                          1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Watch Online:
                Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-08-19
                  Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                            Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                  ID: 860-6190-5675#
                   One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

Present:          Councilmember Bushey
                  Councilmember Kertz
                  Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                  Mayor Kate
Absent:           Vice Mayor Hill
Also Present:     City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                  City Attorney Robert Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. Vice Mayor Hill was absent.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, an announcement of
the Team of the Quarter Police Training Field officers, school starting, and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session: - None.


                                                                                            2
CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported on:
       • Quarterly Climate Action Plan Community Forum to be held Thursday, August 22, at
          City Hall, 3rd Floor Conference Room at 4 p.m.
       • Free Movie in the Park event to be held Friday, August 23, at Pickleweed Park at 7 p.m.
          Movie to start at 8 p.m.
       • Northgate Project Open House (with Developer) to be held Monday, August 26 inside
          Northgate Mall at 6 p.m.
       • West End Block Party, every Friday night through October on Fourth Street, between F
          & G Streets
       • PorchFest to be held Sunday, September 15 in Gerstle Park Neighborhood at noon

   City Clerk Lindsay Lara provided an update on the November 5, 2024 General Election.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Kertz expressed appreciation for Police Department for National Night
          Out and Fire Department for Open Houses.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on the Fire Station 52 Open House, a Marin Transit
          Board meeting representing the Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers
          (MCCMC), a Central Marin Sanitation Agency (CMSA) meeting and a San Rafael
          Sanitation Board meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Marin Board of Supervisors meeting with
          a Marin Transit update, a Voces del Canal meeting, a Parking Task Force meeting,
          National Night Out, Dancing Under the Lights and a MCE Board meeting.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART), a BayWAVE
          presentation, Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) meetings, the Gun Safety
          Collaborative and a Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC) meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Gina Sylvestri, Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association & San Rafael PorchFest Event
Committee

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Consent Calendar items; however, there were none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending June
      30, 2024 (Fin)
      Accepted report



                                                                                          3
   b. Caltrans Maintenance Agreement Amendment
      Rescind Resolution 15306 and Adopt Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City
      Manager to Execute Amendment No. 1 to the Supplemental Freeway Maintenance
      Agreement with Caltrans (PW)
      Rescinded Resolution 15306 and Adopted Resolution 15334 - Resolution Approving and
      Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Amendment No. 1 to the Supplemental Freeway
      Maintenance Agreement with Caltrans

   c. Caltrans Property Relinquishment
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Send a Letter to Request that
      Caltrans Relinquishes the Property East of Redwood Highway and Civic Center Drive (PW)
      Resolution 15335 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Send a Letter to
      Request that Caltrans Relinquishes the Property East of Redwood Highway and Civic Center Drive

   d. Grand Avenue Cycle Track Project
      Accept Completion of the Grand Ave Cycle Track Project, City Project No. 11393, and
      Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted completion of the Grand Ave Cycle Track Project and authorized the City Clerk to file
      the Notice of Completion

   e. Large Trash Capture Device Projects
        Authorize the City Manager to Enter into Professional Services Agreements to Provide
        Design Services for Large Trash Capture Devices with:
     i.    Schaaf & Wheeler Consulting Civil Engineers (S&W) in the Amount Not to Exceed
           $476,565
           Authorized the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement with Schaaf &
           Wheeler Consulting Civil Engineers (“S&W”) to provide design services for large trash capture
           devices at three locations, in the amount not to exceed $476,565

     ii.   BKF Engineers (BKF) in the Amount Not to Exceed $421,300
           Authorized the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement with BKF
           Engineers (“BKF”) to provide design services for large trash capture devices at two locations,
           in the amount not to exceed $421,300

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

PUBLIC HEARINGS
5. Public Hearings:

   a. Proposed Camping Ordinance Amendments, and Informational Report on Homelessness,
        Including Sanctioned Camping Program, Homeless Program Contracts and Appropriation
        of Funds
     i.     Introduction of an Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code Chapter 19.50 --
            Camping on Public Property

     ii.   Resolution Appropriating $2,256,400 From the Grants Fund 283 to Support the Initial
           Costs and Contracts Associated with the Sanctioned Camping Program and Authorizing
           the City Manager to Execute Contracts in the Amount of $2,002,400 for the First Phase

                                                                                                  4
    of the Encampment Resolution Fund Round 3 (ERF3) Grant Program and Other
    Homelessness Program Services (CM)

City Manager Cristine Alilovich introduced the item. Assistant City Manager John Stefanski,
legal counsel Scott Emblidge, Police Captain Roy Leon, and Homelessness and Housing
Analyst Mel Burnette who presented the Staff Report.

Marin County Executive Derek Johnson and St. Vincent De Paul Executive Director
Christine Paquette provided comments.

Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Robbie Powelson, Mark Rivera, Molly Blauvelt, Katie Fleet, Kevin Bruner, Lauren
McCarthy, Jason, Laurel Halvorson, Name Withheld, Stephen Bingham, Lucie Hollingsworth,
Legal Aid of Marin, Stuart Watson, Colin Taylor, Shinji Sakai-Egi, Tara Evans, Karen Strolia,
San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Al Vetere, Mahmoud Shirazi, Wes White, Salinas/
Monterey County Homeless Union & Lived Experience Advisory Directive (LEAD)
Committee (Monterey County) & National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People (NAACP) (Monterey County)

Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

Councilmembers provided comments.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to introduce the
Ordinance, waive further reading of the Ordinance, and refer to it by title only.

AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Hill

Introduced the Ordinance, waived further reading of the Ordinance, and referred to it by title only

City Clerk Lindsay Lara read the title of the Ordinance:
Ordinance No. 2040: An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael Amending
Chapter 19.50 to the San Rafael Municipal Code, Entitled “Camping On Public Property”
Regulating Camping On Public Property Within the City of San Rafael

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
appropriating $2,256,400 from the Grants Fund 283 to support the initial costs and
contracts associated with the Sanctioned Camping Program and authorizing the City
Manager to execute contracts in the amount of $2,002,400 for the first phase of the
Encampment Resolution Fund Round 3 (ERF3) Grant Program and other homelessness
program services.

AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Hill

                                                                                            5
      Resolution 15336 - Resolution Appropriating $2,256,400 From the Grants Fund 283 to Support
      the Initial Costs and Contracts Associated with the Sanctioned Camping Program and Authorizing
      the City Manager to Execute Contracts in the Amount of $2,002,400 for the First Phase of the
      Encampment Resolution Fund Round 3 (ERF3) Grant Program and Other Homelessness Program
      Services

      Mayor Kate called a recess at 8:42 p.m., and called the meeting to order at 8:51 p.m.

   b. Amendments to Chapter 15.155 (Urban Lot Splits) and Chapter 15.03 (Minor Subdivisions
      (Four or Fewer Lots)) of the San Rafael Municipal Code
      Introduction of an Ordinance Amending Chapter 15.155 (Urban Lot Splits) and Chapter
      15.03 (Minor Subdivisions (Four or Fewer Lots)) of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Clarify
      and Improve the Procedure for Implementation of Government Code Section 66411.7
      (Senate Bill 9) Related to Urban Lot Splits (PW)

      Assistant Public Works Director Joanna Kwok presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to introduce the
      Ordinance, waive further reading of the Ordinance, and refer to it by title only.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Hill

      Introduced the Ordinance, waived further reading of the Ordinance, and referred to it by title only

      City Clerk Lindsay Lara read the title of the Ordinance:
      Ordinance No. 2041: An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael amending
      Chapter 15.155 (Urban Lot Splits) and Chapter 15.03 (Minor Subdivisions (Four or Fewer
      Lots)) of Title 15 (Subdivisions) of the San Rafael Municipal Code to clarify and improve the
      procedure for implementation of Government Code Section 66411.7 (Senate Bill 9) related
      to Urban Lot Splits

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Response to the Grand Jury Report on Sea Level Rise
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the Marin
      County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “Sea Level Rise: The Water is Upon Us We Cannot
      Run – We Cannot Hide” (CM)

      Climate Adaptation and Resilience Planner Kate Hagemann presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

                                                                                                  6
   Speaker: Al Vetere

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution approving and authorizing the mayor to execute the response to the Marin
   County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “Sea Level Rise: The Water is Upon Us We Cannot
   Run – We Cannot Hide.”

  AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

  Resolution 15337 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to
  the Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “Sea Level Rise: The Water is Upon Us We Cannot
  Run – We Cannot Hide”

b. Sidewalk Repair Program Update
   Approve the Sidewalk Repair Program as a Permanent Program and Authorize a $1,000
   Increase in Allowable Reimbursement Amount, for a New Total Reimbursement up to
   $2,000 in Fiscal Year 2024-25, With an Allowable Yearly Increase Tied to the Consumer
   Price Index, Up to a Maximum of 3.5% a Year (CM)

   Deputy Public Works Director Jonathan Schellin presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Al Vetere, Name Withheld

   Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the
   Sidewalk Repair Program as a permanent program and authorize a $1,000 increase in
   allowable reimbursement amount, for a new total reimbursement up to $2,000 in fiscal year
   2024-25, with an allowable yearly increase tied to the Consumer Price Index, up to a
   maximum of 3.5% a year.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

  Approved the Sidewalk Repair Program as a permanent program and authorized a $1,000
  Increase in allowable reimbursement amount, for a new total reimbursement up to $2,000 in fiscal
  year 2024-25, with an allowable yearly increase tied to the Consumer Price Index, up to a
  maximum of 3.5% a year


                                                                                           7
c. Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendments
   Resolution Adopting Amendments to the City of San Rafael Budget for Fiscal Year 2023-
   2024 for the Purpose of Confirming Authorized Appropriations and Transfers (Fin)

   Finance Manager Shawn Plate presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to Adopt the
   Resolution Adopting Amendments to the City of San Rafael Budget for Fiscal Year 2023-
   2024 for the Purpose of Confirming Authorized Appropriations and Transfers.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill

  Resolution 15338 - Resolution Adopting Amendments to the City of San Rafael Budget for Fiscal
  Year 2023-2024 for the Purpose of Confirming Authorized Appropriations and Transfers

d. Pavement Maintenance Project Fiscal Year 2024-25
   Award the Construction Agreement for the Pavement Maintenance Project FY 2024-25 to
   Pavement Coatings Co. and Authorize $1,900,000 for Project Construction (PW)

   Associate Civil Engineer (Public Works) Grey Melgard presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Name Withheld

   Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve plans
   and specifications for the Pavement Maintenance Project FY 2024-25 (also referred to as
   “City Project No. 11454” and “the Project”) deemed reasonable by the City Engineer, on file
   in the Department of Public Works; and, award a construction agreement (the “Construction
   Agreement”) for the project to Pavement Coatings Co., authorize the City Manager to
   execute the construction agreement in the amount of $1,655,880 and authorize the City
   Manager to amend the contract amount using contingency funds of $244,120 for a total not
   to exceed amount of $1,900,000 for the Project; And, Appropriate $400,000 from the Gas
   Tax Fund (206) for the construction agreement to supplement the previously appropriated
   amount of $1,500,000 from the Gas Tax Fund (206) included in the FY 2024-25 adopted
   budget approved on June 17, 2024.




                                                                                        8
      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Hill

      Approved plans and specifications for the Pavement Maintenance Project FY 2024-25 (also
      referred to as “City Project No. 11454” and “the Project”) deemed reasonable by the City Engineer,
      on file in the Department of Public Works; And, awarded a construction agreement (the
      “Construction Agreement”) for the project to Pavement Coatings Co., authorized the City Manager
      to execute the construction agreement in the amount of $1,655,880 and authorized the City
      Manager to amend the contract amount using contingency funds of $244,120 for a total not to
      exceed amount of $1,900,000 for the Project; And, appropriated $400,000 from the Gas Tax
      Fund (206) for the construction agreement to supplement the previously appropriated amount of
      $1,500,000 from the Gas Tax Fund (206) included in the FY 2024-25 adopted budget approved
      on June 17, 2024

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Al Vetere addressed the city council expressing thanks to Public Works for street maintenance.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:55 p.m.

                                                             ___________________________
                                                                LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                               APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                      _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                                 9
