From: Al Vetere
Sent: Friday, August 16, 2024 2:49:09 PM
To: Lindsay Lara <lindsayl@cityofsanrafael.org>
Subject: Re: Re:Agenda-Packet-2024-08-19rr.pdf - comments

Lindsay,

These are more substantial questions that I did not see covered in the packet. These should be directed
to the author(s) of the document, and optionally to the city council,




Homeless

1.   How many people will fit into the mahon path encampment

2.   Is this the only one for san rafael at this time

3.   How can residents report their concerns

4.   What purpose do the security guards have?

                  a.   Are they armed?

                  b.   Can they detain?

5.   What consequence(s) are there for non-compliance with rules

6.   Will there be a curfew

7.   Is that path open to residents for travel

8.   Does this mean all homeless will be required to reside in this encampment?

                  Ex the homeless who sleep around the town hall

al

On Friday, August 16, 2024 at 10:10:22 AM PDT, Lindsay Lara <lindsayl@cityofsanrafael.org> wrote:


Hi Al - would you like me to forward your email to staff report authors and the city council to be
incorporated in the agenda packet?

From: Al Vetere
Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2024 5:04 PM
To: Lindsay Lara <lindsayl@cityofsanrafael.org>
Subject: Re:Agenda-Packet-2024-08-19rr.pdf - comments

Lindsay - reading the report and noticed the following.

Re:Agenda-Packet-2024-08-19rr.pdf

PDF Page 142 – cool word

For violations relating to unpermitted structures and building materials, the proposed ordinance now
permits the City to tag the structure with a notice to remove it from public property within 48 hours, again
aligning with the Governor’s recent Executive Order. If the noticed structure is not removed within that
timeframe, the City may immediately remove such structure and restore the public property. This would
allow the City to remediate unpermitted structures in a much more efficient manner than the
administrative hearing process the City currently has had to ulitize to abate unpermitted structures.

Page 140 – odd

The City of San Rafael remains committed to finding solutions that honor the dignity of every person living
in San Rafael, while at the same time preserving the accessibility and cleanliness of shared public spaces
something that is crucial for the well-being of everyone who calls San Rafael home




Page 151 - odd

The City, through the Community Homeless Fund collaboration with the County of Marin, City of Novato,
and Town of Fairfax, have contracted with WeHope to provide regular shower services to experiencing
homelessness in each jurisdiction. WeHope proposes to increase the frequency of service to offer
services specifically for the sanctioned camping area.

Page 151 – trash is measured in gallons?

More than 100,000 gallons of trash removed from Downtown and the Canal neighborhood

al
