From: Katie Fleet
Sent: Saturday, August 17, 2024 12:05 AM
To: Mayor Kate <kate.colin@cityofsanrafael.org>; Maika Llorens Gulati <maika@cityofsanrafael.org>; Eli
Hill <eli.hill@cityofsanrafael.org>; Maribeth Bushey <maribeth.bushey@cityofsanrafael.org>; Rachel
Kertz <rachel.kertz@cityofsanrafael.org>
Cc: Kevin Bruner
Subject: Re: Homeless Camp at Parkside

Dear Mayor Kate and City Councilmembers,

I am the mother of a six-year-old girl who attends Parkside Children's Center and attends a
San Rafael Public School (Sun Valley). I have been in touch with you since 2022 regarding
the issue of homeless encampments near Parkside. I attended the March 2023 hearing on
the Albert Park Ordinance and have followed subsequent ordinances and the Boyd
litigation. Since the Supreme Court struck down Grants Pass and Governor Newsom
issued his Executive Order, I honestly wasn't sure what the city would be doing about the
Mahon Creek encampment. I hoped those developments would be an opportunity for
positive change and was anticipating news or announcements and the opportunity for
community input.

I received the City Manager's email blast yesterday and learned about the proposal to get
additional financial support for the Mahon Creek encampment. I wanted to share that the
timing of this announcement and the Monday City Council hearing make it very difficult for
school and childcare center communities to participate meaningfully in the conversation.

As you know, San Rafael City Schools are starting back on Wednesday. To push this
resolution through the City Council two days before the start of the school year prevents
school communities from having any meaningful input. Davidson and Parkside students,
teachers, and families have all been impacted by the existing encampment and their
voices should be heard before significant steps are taken on the current proposal.

I plan to participate in the City Council hearing on Monday despite it being a very busy
time. I know many other parents want to be able to participate and be heard on this issue
but can't, given the notice and timing.

I urge you to delay consideration of this proposal and obtain more input from the impacted
school and childcare communities before moving forward.

Please feel free to reach out to me with questions or if there is anything I can do to help.

Thank you for your attention.
Best,

Katie

Katie Fleet
