From: Jeff Greenberg
Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2024 8:38 PM
To: Mayor Kate <Kate.Colin@cityofsanrafael.org>
Subject: FW: Homelessness News Update: August 15, 2024

Kate at your recommendation I subscribed and now read the Homeless
report. I understand it’s a difficult problem.

That said as a homeowner, business owner and tax payer in San Rafael,
I’m opposed to homeless encampments on our streets. Especially the
Anderson Lindaro group.
I find it disgusting that a once beautiful city now rivals the Mission in SF.
The tents aren’t 5’ from the road, nor are they 10’ apart, and they
aren’t 10’ from private property. So enforcement doesn’t appear to be
working or happening, though the report makes it sound like this has
been remedied (it sure doesn’t appear that way to me).
And even if they were compliant, which they are not, I don’t want
homeless people camping on our streets.
If they can’t prove local ties, let’s provide transportation to get them
where they came from and potentially have support.
If they have local ties, let’s get them back with their families or into
shelters. And for those that don’t want those options, let’s fine them or
move them to the jail until they realize their desire to camp in our
public spaces while the rest of us pay property taxes and they pay
nothing, and utilize several million dollars of our services is
unacceptable.

I watch all of the Guatemalans, Mexicans and Hondurans who come to
our area (illegally) and they aren’t living on the streets. They find jobs,
work hard and despite not being from the area find places to live. They
want to live the American dream and are willing to work for it and I
support that and am quite happy to be a sanctuary for illegal
immigrants.
I just have no tolerance for people who chose not to work and think
that the rest of us should support them and allow them to camp freely
on our streets.

Our Governor wants these encampments cleaned up and so do I.

Jeff Greenberg

From: City of San Rafael <endhomelessness@cityofsanrafael.org>
Reply-To: City of San Rafael <endhomelessness@cityofsanrafael.org>
Date: Thursday, August 15, 2024 at 4:59 PM
To:
Subject: Homelessness News Update: August 15, 2024




                               Share        Tweet        Forward




         Homelessness News Update: August 15, 2024
The City Council will receive a comprehensive update on homelessness in San
Rafael at Monday night's City Council meeting, scheduled for August 19 at 6:00
PM.


The staff report and full agenda can be found HERE.


We have updated the City's Homelessness website to make it easier to find
information about what we are doing to provide services to individuals
experiencing homelessness and how we plan to enforce our camping
ordinance.
You can watch Monday's meeting in person in the Council Chambers, City Hall,
1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901 or virtually by clicking HERE.




                       For more information, please contact
                      endhomelessness@cityofsanrafael.org




                     HOMELESSNESS IN SAN RAFAEL




                          Share        Tweet         Forward
              Questions?

              Contact Us


              You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list


                                                                           Copyright © 2024 City of San Rafael,
                                                                                             All rights reserved.
Homelessness is the City of San Rafael's #1 issue. This is your resource for learning about the steps the City is
                                                                                             taking to address it.
                                                                                       Our mailing address is:
                                                                                              City of San Rafael
                                                                                                  1400 Fifth Ave
                                                                                   San Rafael, California 94901


                                                                                   Add us to your address book
