From: Jessica Yarnall Loarie
Sent: Monday, August 19, 2024 1:11 PM
To: Mayor Kate <kate.colin@cityofsanrafael.org>; Maika Llorens Gulati <maika@cityofsanrafael.org>; Eli
Hill <eli.hill@cityofsanrafael.org>; Maribeth Bushey <maribeth.bushey@cityofsanrafael.org>; Rachel
Kertz <rachel.kertz@cityofsanrafael.org>
Subject: $5 mil sanctioned encampment plan; request to postpone vote

Dear Mayor and City Council--

We are Gerstle Park residents and have children that attend San Rafael City Schools and
the City-run Parkside aftercare and camps, as well as camps at the City-run community
center.

While I am enthused that the homelessness issue is on the city council agenda for today, I
was surprised to see in the staff report that the city appears to be doubling down on the
Mahon encampment which is between Parkside Childcare center and Davidson. Yet the
city will remove the encampment from the Falkirk Parking lot because it is near the private
Marin Academy? The city appears to be spending $5 mil on 47 campsites, which also
doesn't pencil out in any way.
This is also not an equitable solution.

I note the US Supreme Court decision from this summer and the Governor's directive to
start clearing homeless encampments do not seem to have changed the city's plans. We
need a real plan to restore our streets and parks to being clean and usable. This plan is not
it.

In the last few weeks alone while my kids were at Parkside summer camp or at camps at
the City-run Community Center, there have been numerous unhoused individuals outside
of Parkside and the community center (sometimes openly doing drugs), sitting on the lawn
self-grooming with unleashed pets, or living in a car half a block down the road between
Parkside, the encampment and Davidson. When we grocery shop there are frequent
disturbances in our local grocery stores, especially Safeway and Sprouts. There was
formerly an encampment on the backside of Parkside (moved for baseball season but for
weeks our kids could not go outside, and had bottles and other items thrown over the
fence.) This is unacceptable, full stop.

The city needs to clear the Mahon and Anderson encampments immediately under the
Governor's directive, not allow them to continue to be used and allow open dumping of
trash to proliferate on a small creek and bike path, and disturb our kids on the way to
school and aftercare or when we shop at local businesses. The boundary for no
encampments around schools and childcare facilities should be 1000-2000+ feet
minimum if not a complete ban--camping is generally not allowed in the city outside of
formal campgrounds. There is no court precedent holding the city back, there is state
money, and the Governor notes that state monies will be withheld from cities that do not
act.

It is not an equitable solution to have our public school children bear the burden of an
encampment while clearing it near a rather expensive private school, Marin Academy.

There are empty properties near Civic Center if the city wishes to host a sanctioned camp,
or share the burden with Ross, Tiburon, Corte Madera, Mill Valley, San Anselmo, etc.
Services could be mobile and deliver food if needed--with $5 mil at play, there are certainly
other viable solutions. The city notes there is a county/city partnership on these issues and
these are the sort of solutions that need to be explored.

Our Gerstle Park neighborhood, public schools, aftercare and the San Rafael community
disproportionately bear the impact of homelessness in Marin and have for far too long. Our
neighboring towns do not tolerate this. Even San Francisco has cleared most of its
encampments-I drove through clear portions of the tenderloin and civic center just this
morning.

Gerstle Park and Bret Harte are full of working class families and Mahon does not serve as
an acceptable solution for another 12-18 months and beyond at a price tag of what
appears to be $5 million.

The City of San Rafael needs to strengthen its response and restore our natural areas for
the intended community use, while providing safe sidewalks, bikepaths and streets for our
kids to use. The ordinance should ban all camping or at minimum extend the buffer
between schools and childcare facilities (public and private.)

This issue should be postponed for vote at tonight's city council meeting while the city
consults with the affected neighborhoods and schools about solutions, stronger
ordinances, and plans to clear impacted parks and bike paths, not to continue a
sanctioned encampment in an unacceptable location at a $5 million price tag for 47
campsites. Permanent housing solutions might be on the table for that amount.

Thanks,
Jessica
From: Thomas Montgomery <vicechair@maringop.org>
Sent: Monday, August 19, 2024 1:00 PM
To: Mayor Kate <Kate.Colin@cityofsanrafael.org>; Cristine Alilovich
<cristine.alilovich@cityofsanrafael.org>
Cc: Rob Epstein <rob.epstein@cityofsanrafael.org>
Subject: "Colinville"

Hello Mayor Kate and City Manager Alilovich,

Mayor Kate, thank you for your response to my last email, however, FYI I found it to be
extremely patronizing. That said, the homeless encampments appear to be growing rather than
shrinking. Not sure what the city is waiting for as you have a US Supreme Court decision
supporting you on their removal. CalTrans has already cleaned up their share, so what gives
with the City of San Rafael? Anderson Drive is a trainwreck and both of you, as well as the
entire city council, should be ashamed of yourselves for essentially condoning the demise (by
your inaction) of our once beautiful city.

Just last night while driving down 5th St, I saw not one but two people sleeping of the steps of
City Hall. Two questions I have are: when will tents show up; and when will city employees have
to start stepping around bodies laying in their path as they go to work each day? Would this be
permitted across the street at the new public safety building? Just asking.

Even better though are the tents that have popped up in front of the library. That would be the
library down the street from City Hall. I get that it may take time to remove existing
encampments, but certainly the city should be able to prevent new ones from taking root. See
attached photo. Pardon the blurriness, but the car was moving at the speed limit so as not to
impede traffic. Hopefully you get the idea.

If you noticed the subject line in this email, I have named this issue in your honor, Mayor Kate.
Going forward, I will be encouraging other folks to also refer to this unmitigated disaster as
“Colinville.” Has a nice ring to it, don’t you think?

Regards,

Tom Montgomery
Vice\Finance Chair MCRCC
