                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2024


This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 5:30 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                          Watch online: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-12-16
                               or www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                  Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                        ID: 860-6190-5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       Assistant City Manager John Stefanski
                        City Attorney Rob Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    Mayor Kate invited public comment.

    Speaker: Gary Ragghianti

    CONSENT CALENDAR:
    1. Consent Calendar:

    Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
    Calendar.

        a. November 5, 2024 General Municipal Election Results
           Resolution Declaring Canvass of Votes Cast and Results of the Consolidated General
       Municipal Election Held on November 5, 2024, to Include Results of Ballot Measure P (CC)
       Resolution 15361 - Resolution Declaring Canvass of Votes Cast and Results of the Consolidated
       General Municipal Election Held on November 5, 2024, to Include Results of Ballot Measure P

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

SWEAR-IN CEREMONY:
2. Swear-in Ceremony:

   a. Swear-in Ceremony for the Following Newly Elected Officials (CC):

           •    Lindsay Lara, City Clerk
           •    Robert Epstein, City Attorney
           •    Maika Llorens Gulati, Councilmember District 1
           •    Rachel Kertz, Councilmember District 4
           •    Kate Colin, Mayor

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 5:46pm

                              REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                            San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                           1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                      Watch online: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-12-16
                            or www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                               Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                     ID: 860-6190-5675#
                    One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

Present:           Councilmember Bushey
                   Vice Mayor Hill
                   Councilmember Kertz
                   Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                   Mayor Kate
Absent:            None
Also Present:      Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Piñon
                   City Attorney Rob Epstein
                   City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff (especially to Public
Works, Police and Fire Departments in responding to the community during the big storms), an
announcement of the Employee of the 3rd Quarter (Hector Carlos, Senior Code Enforcement
Supervisor), end of year gratitude to residents, board & commission volunteers, City Staff, local
businesses, community nonprofits and all stakeholders who engage with the City, and a mural
unveiling announcement and land acknowledgment.
                                                                                                  2
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session: - None.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   Assistant City Manager John Stefanski reported on:
      • Congratulations to the City’s newly elected officials
      • Gratitude to the San Rafael Library Foundation for their dedication and advocacy to the
          passage of Measure P
      • “Peoples of the Canal” mural unveiling to be held tomorrow at the Al Boro Community
          Center at 1:45 p.m.
      • Menorah lighting and Gelt drop to be held Sunday, December 29, downtown, 5-6:30
          p.m.
      • City Hall and other administrative offices to be closed from December 23rd through
          January 3rd, Library branches to be closed from December 23rd through January 4th, with
          the Pickleweed Library closing earlier on the 21st. Police, Fire and Paramedic services will
          not be affected during this time and all emergency personnel to remain on duty.
      • Next City Council meeting to be held Tuesday, January 21, 2025

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Hill reported on an Economic Development Subcommittee meeting and the
          Fire Station 51 Open House.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on a Homeless Policy Steering Committee quarterly
          meeting, the Lighted Boat Parade, the City Holiday Reception, the City Council Retreat,
          and the Fire Station 51 Open House.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on the Lighted Boat Parade, a symphony at St.
          Raphael’s Church, and a Central Marin Sanitation Agency meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a couple of Marin Clean Energy meetings,
          the Canal Alliance Leadership Academy graduation, the Lighted Boat Parade, Jamie Ortiz
          as the Marin Latino Leader of the Year, an East San Rafael check-in with Supervisor
          Rodoni, a task force meeting evaluating a parking permit in the Canal, the Employee
          Holiday Ugly Sweater Party, and the Canal Alliance High Tide Day.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) meeting and a
          sanctioned camping area tour.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
City Attorney Robert Epstein provided comments on agenda item 4.f.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

                                                                                                    3
Speakers: Grace Geraghty, Responsible Growth Marin, Phil Holstein, Responsible Growth Marin,
Laura Silverman, Responsible Growth Marin, David Smith, Responsible Growth Marin, Shirley
Fischer, Responsible Growth Marin, Julie Case, Responsible Growth Marin, Susan Coleman,
Responsible Growth Marin, Name Withheld, Philip Wyatt, Kurt Rossetti, Joe Upjohn and Al Vetere.

Agenda item 4.b held from the consent calendar.

 City Attorney Rob Epstein responded to questions raised during public comment (regarding agenda
item 4.f)

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the
remainder of the Consent Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Assistant City Manager John Stefanski commented on agenda item 4.b and invited Nira Doherty,
Special Counsel, and Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle, to respond to
questions raised during public comment and by the City Council.

Councilmembers provided comments.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to waive the second reading
and adopt by title only Ordinance 2043.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Waived the Second Reading and Adopted by Title Only Ordinance 2043

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of December 2, 2024 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Northgate Town Square Project Ordinance Adoption
      Waive the Second Reading and Adopt by Title Only Ordinance 2043 Entitled: An
      Ordinance to adopt a Zoning Amendment to establish the Northgate Town Square Planned
      Development (PD) District, approve the Northgate Town Square Development Plan,
      amend the City’s Zoning Map, and rezone the 44.76-acre Northgate Mall property from
      General Commercial to the Northgate PD District and including adoption of Findings of
      Fact, a Statement of Overriding Consideration, and a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting
      Program (MMRP) for the Northgate Town Square Project (CC)
      Waived the Second Reading and Adopted by Title Only Ordinance 2043




                                                                                              4
   c. Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project Environmental Consulting Services
      Authorize the City Manager to Execute the Third Amendment to the Professional Services
      Agreement with LSA Associates, Inc. for Environmental Consulting Services for the
      Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project in an Amount of $105,000, for a Total Contract
      Amount of $615,851 (CED)
      Authorized the City Manager to execute a Third Amendment to the Professional Services
      Agreement with LSA Associates, Inc. for additional environmental consulting services associated
      with the Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project, in the amount not to exceed $105,000, for a
      total not to exceed contract amount of $615,851

   d. Legislative Advocacy Services Agreement Renewal
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Two-Year Agreement with
      Emanuels Jones & Associates for Legislative Advocacy Services in an Amount Not to
      Exceed $93,670 (CM)
      Resolution 15362 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Two-Year Agreement
      with Emanuels Jones & Associates for Legislative Advocacy Services in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $93,670

   e. Peacock Gap Park Playground Improvement Project
         Award the Construction Agreement to Rapid Grading Services and Authorize Supplemental
         Budget Appropriations for the Peacock Gap Park Playground Improvement Project (PW
      i.    Awarded the construction agreement (the “Construction Agreement”) for the Peacock Gap
            Park Playground Improvement Project (the “Project”) to Rapid Grading Services; And,
            authorized the City Manager to execute the Construction Agreement in the amount of
            $804,950; And, authorized the City Manager to amend the contract amount using
            contingency funds of $120,050 for a total not to exceed amount of $925,000 for the Project
     ii.    Authorized a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $210,000 from the Parks
            Measure A Fund (Fund 241) for the Project
    iii.    Approved plans and specifications for the Project (also referred to as “City Project No.
            11436”), deemed reasonable by the City Engineer, on file in the Department of Public Works

   f. Amendment to City Manager Employment Agreement and Fire Chief Employment
        Agreement
     i.    Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute an Amendment to the
           Employment Agreement Between the City and City Manager Cristine R. Alilovich; And,
           Resolution Authorizing the Mayor and City Manager to Execute an Employment
           Agreement with Abraham Roman to Serve as the City of San Rafael Fire Chief (HR)
           Resolution 15363 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute an
           Amendment to the Employment Agreement Between the City and City Manager Cristine R.
           Alilovich; And
           Resolution 15364 - Resolution Authorizing the Mayor and City Manager to Execute an
           Employment Agreement with Abraham Roman to Serve as the City of San Rafael Fire Chief

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations:

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   a. Proclamation Supporting Shop San Rafael (CED)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.
                                                                                                    5
      San Rafael Chamber of Commerce President & CEO Karen Strolia and Business
      Improvement District Director Sarah Tipple provided comments.

   b. Proclamation Supporting the City of San Rafael’s 150th Anniversary (CM)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Marin County Board of Supervisors President and District 4 Supervisor Dennis Rodoni
      provided comments.

   c. Proclamation Supporting the Fire Department’s 150th Anniversary (FD)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Fire Chief Abraham Roman provided comments along with Fire Commissioners David
      Fonkalsrud, Brian Waterbury and Stan Burford. Also, Marin County Fire Chief Jason Weber
      provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Assessment Annual Renewal
      Resolution Confirming the 2024 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael Business
      Improvement District and Levy of Assessments for Calendar Year 2025 (CED)
      Resolution Confirming the 2024 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael Business
      Improvement District and Levy of Assessments for Calendar Year 2025

      Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle introduced Assistant
      Director of Community and Economic Greg Minor who presented the Staff Report.

      Business Improvement District Director Sarah Tipple provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Karen Strolia, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce President & CEO

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Hill seconded to adopt the resolution
      confirming the 2024 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement
      District and levy of assessments for calendar year 2025.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15365 - Resolution Confirming the 2024 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael
      Business Improvement District and Levy of Assessments for Calendar Year 2025

                                                                                               6
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Vice Mayor Election and City Council Appointments to Committees for 2025
      Elect the Vice Mayor for 2025 and Approve City Council Appointments to Committees for
      2025 (CC)

      Assistant City Manager John Stefanski presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to elect Maribeth Bushey as
      Vice Mayor for 2025.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Elected Maribeth Bushey as Vice Mayor for 2025

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve
      City Council appointments to committees for 2025

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Approved City Council Appointments to Committees for 2025

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Julie Case, addressed the City Council regarding the Northgate Mall Development.
  • Name Withheld, thanked the City Council for their leadership and dedication.

ADJOURNMENT:
Adjourned 7:48pm

                                                          __________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                          7
