                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2022

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                             In-Person:
                                  San Rafael City Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Participate Virtually:
                    Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2022-10-17
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                      ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
in-person,    virtually   using    Zoom      and    is     being     streamed     to   YouTube     at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms.
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees.
  • Use the sign-in sheet (optional) which allows notification of potentially exposed individuals if
      contact tracing reveals COVID-19 transmission may have occurred in a given meeting.
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and press *9 to raise your hand, and
       *6 to unmute yourself, then provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.
 Present:       Councilmember Bushey
                Councilmember Hill
                Vice Mayor Kertz
                Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                Mayor Kate
 Absent:        None
Also Present: City Manager Jim Schutz
              City Attorney Robert Epstein
              City Clerk Lindsay Lara

   Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
   roll. All members of the City Council were present.

   City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
   held on October 11, 2022 at 7:00 p.m.

   Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the hybrid City Council meeting, gratitude
   to City Staff, a San Rafael Cultural Arts District update, a community art project unveiling at Arbor
   Park to be held Saturday, October 22 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m., Dia de los Muertos Car Procession and
   Alter Display to be held Saturday, October 22 3-4 p.m., Trick or Treat on 4th Street to be held
   Saturday, October 29 1-3 p.m. and a land acknowledgment.

   City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation for the evening. She
   informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded and streamed live to
   YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would provide public comment either on
   the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation on the
   telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

   OPEN SESSION
   1. None.

   CLOSED SESSION
   2. None.

   OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
     • Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore addressed the City Council regarding San Rafael sea level rise
        and flood risk reduction. He expressed gratitude for the City bringing onboard new
        Adaptation Planner, Kate Hagemann.
     • Richard O’Brien addressed the City Council regarding Consent Calendar Item 4.c Citizen of
        the Year Award Designation.
     • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the City Council regarding the services at the Service Support
        Area.
     • Linda Lang addressed the City Council regarding residential developments planned at
        Northgate.
     • Rose addressed the City Council regarding Consent Calendar Item 4.c Citizen of the Year
        Award Designation.
     • John Reynolds addressed the City Council requesting updates on the recent use of force
        incident by San Rafael police officers, the plan for the Canal (in addition to the recent lighting
        and paving), and the 400 Canal Street apartment building’s new ownership/evictions.

   CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
   (including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
   3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:
   City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
       • Community Conversations Update
              - Community Conversations to be held October 22 – November 14
       • Recent Use of Force Incident by San Rafael Police Officers Update
                                                                                                   2
          -   Policing in our Community Meetings to be held at the Al Boro Community Center
              (and virtually) Monday, October 24 at 6 p.m. and Thursday, November 3 at 6 p.m.

Councilmember Reports:
   • Councilmember Kertz reported on Marin Emergency Radio Authority (MERA) meetings and
      a tour of independent housing units in Petaluma. She announced her Community
      Conversation to be held Saturday, October 22 at Ounces Outdoors at 12:30 p.m., following
      the Arbor Park art project unveiling to be held at 11 a.m.
   • Councilmember Hill reported on a tour of the Downtown San Rafael Arts District with state
      legislators and the Canal dredging kick-off.
   • Councilmember Bushey reported on the Canal dredging kick-off, as well as, San Rafael
      Library Foundation, Central Marin Sanitation Agency and Las Gallinas Water District
      meetings. She noted her Community Conversation was held last week and she thanked
      Mayor Kate for attending in her place.
   • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on her interview on the weekly radio show Cuerpo
      Corazon Communidad (Body Heart Community), Supervisor Dennis Rodoni’s Community
      Conversation, an Economic Development Subcommittee meeting and the Canal dredging
      kick-off. She announced her Community Conversation to be held Monday, November 14 at
      the Al Boro Community Center at 6 p.m. She noted Dia de los Muertos is coming up on
      November 5 in the Canal.
   • Mayor Kate reported on the Canal dredging kick-off, a Walk and Roll (Safe Routes to
      Schools/Transportation Authority of Marin). She announced her Community Conversation
      to be held Wednesday, November 3 at the Terra Linda Community Center at 5:30 p.m.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate pulled Item 4.c from the Consent Calendar for further discussion.

Mayor Kate invited public comment on all Consent items, 4.a through 4.i.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar,
excluding Item 4.c., and the City Clerk read the title of the ordinance presented in item 4.f

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the City Council Regular and Special Meetings of September 19, 2022
      and the City Council Regular Meeting of October 3, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted




                                                                                        3
b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
   Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
   the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
   Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
   Pandemic (CA)
   Resolution 15138 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
   the Need for the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
   Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic

c. Citizen of the Year Award Designation
   Resolution Designating “The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario O’Brien Citizen of the
   Year Award” as the “Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario O’Brien Public Service Award”
   (CC)

   This item was held from the Consent Calendar.

   Lindsay Lara, City Clerk presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Mayor Kate invited further public comment on this item.

   Speakers: Richard O’Brien, Eva Chrysanthe

   Due to a technical difficulty resulting in audio being muted for community members
   participating on Zoom, City Clerk Lindsay Lara re-presented the Staff Report, and reiterated
   the questions posed by the City Council.

   Mayor Kate re-invited public comment on this item.

   Speakers: Jonathan Frieman, Rose, Eva Chrysanthe, John Reynolds

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

   Resolution 15147 - Resolution Designating “The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario O’Brien
   Citizen of the Year Award” as the “Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario O’Brien Public Service
   Award”




                                                                                           4
d. Information Technology Services Agreement Renewal
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Service Agreement with
   Addendum with Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from November 1,
   2022 Through October 31, 2023 in an Amount Not to Exceed $1,068,350 (DS)
   Resolution 15139 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Service
   Agreement with Addendum with Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from
   November 1, 2022 Through October 31, 2023 in an Amount Not to Exceed $1,068,350

e. City Quarterly Investment Report
   Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
   September 30, 2022 (Fin)
   Accepted report

f. Triannual Fire Code Ordinance Amendments
   Introduction of An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council Amending Chapter
   4.08 of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Adopt by Reference the California Fire Code 2022
   Edition with Amendments, the International Fire Code 2021 Edition, and Appendix A of
   the 2021 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code and Adopting Findings of Fact
   Supporting the Amendments to Such Codes; and Setting a Public Hearing for November 7,
   2022 (FD)
   Waived further reading of the ordinance and referred to it by title only, introduced the Ordinance,
   and set a public hearing for November 7, 2022

g. Sponsorship of Minor Park Amenities Policy
   Resolution Adopting the Sponsorship of Minor Park Amenities Policy, and Rescinding
   Resolution 8923 Donation of Park Trees and Bench Guidelines (LR)
   Resolution 15140 - Resolution Adopting the Sponsorship of Minor Park Amenities Policy, and
   Rescinding Resolution 8923 Donation of Park Trees and Bench Guidelines

h. Increase Construction Contingency on Fire Stations 54 & 55 Essential Facilities Projects
   Resolution Authorizing Additional Construction Contingency Funds for Phase 2 Essential
   Facilities Projects – Fire Stations 54 and 55, In an Amount Not to Exceed $450,000, For a
   Total Construction Contingency Amount of $1,330,900 (PW)
   Resolution 15141 - Resolution Authorizing Additional Construction Contingency Funds for Phase
   2 Essential Facilities Projects – Fire Stations 54 and 55, In an Amount Not to Exceed $450,000,
   For a Total Construction Contingency Amount of $1,330,900

i.      One Bay Area Grant (OBAG3) Resolutions
        Resolution of Compliance with State Housing Laws and Resolutions of Local Support for
        Four Projects: Canal Active Transportation Improvements, Canal/Southeast San Rafael
        PDA, Northgate PDA and Second and Fourth Street Intersection Improvements (PW/CD)
     i.    Resolution Verifying Compliance with State Housing Laws
           Resolution 15142 - Resolution Verifying Compliance with State Housing Laws

     ii.   Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to MTC and
           Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
           Canal Active Transportation Improvements Project
           Resolution 15143 - Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to
           MTC and Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
           Canal Active Transportation Improvements Project
                                                                                               5
     iii.   Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to MTC and
            Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Canal/Southeast Area PDA Study Project
            Resolution 15144 - Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to
            MTC and Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Canal/Southeast Area PDA Study Project

     iv.    Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to MTC and
            Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Northgate Area PDA Study Project
            Resolution 15145 - Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to
            MTC and Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Northgate Area PDA Study Project

    v.      Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to MTC and
            Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Second and Fourth Street Intersection Improvements Project
            Resolution 15146 - Resolution Authorizing the Filing of Application for Funding Assigned to
            MTC and Committing Any Necessary Matching Funds and Stating Assurance to Complete the
            Second and Fourth Street Intersection Improvements Project

SPECIAL PRESENTATION
5. Special Presentation:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting the 2022 Great Shake Out Earthquake Drill (FD)

       Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

       Richard Diaz, Community Disaster Preparedness Coordinator provided comments in English
       and Spanish.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Transit Center Relocation Draft Environmental Impact Report Update
      Informational Update from Golden Gate Bridge, Highway & Transportation District
      Regarding the New Downtown San Rafael Transit Center (PW/CD)

       Ali Giudice, Community Development Director presented the Staff Report.

       Adam Dankberg and Shilpa Trisal, Golden Gate Bridge, Highway & Transportation District
       gave a presentation.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.
                                                                                                6
       Speakers: Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore, Kevin Hagerty, League of Women Voters of Marin
       County Transportation, Land Use & Housing Committee, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael,
       John Reynolds, Eva Chrysanthe, Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Aaron
       Burnett, Canal Alliance, Jonathan Frieman

       Staff responded to public comment.

       Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
       report.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

       Accepted report

b. San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction
   Adopt Resolutions for the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project, City Project
   No. 11334 (PW)

       April Miller, Public Works Director introduced Theo Sanchez, Associate Civil Engineer who
       presented the Staff Report.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speakers: Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Kate Powers, Eva
       Chrysanthe

       Staff responded to public comment.

       Councilmembers provided comments.

  i.      Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Construction
          Agreement for the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project to Thompson
          Builders Corporation, in the Amount of $6,538,725 and Authorizing Contingency Funds
          in the Amount of $685,275 For a Total Contract Appropriation of $7,224,000

       Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:              Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:              None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:              None

       Resolution 15148 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the
       Construction Agreement for the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project to Thompson
                                                                                             7
       Builders Corporation, in the Amount of $6,538,725 and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the
       Amount of $685,275 For a Total Contract Appropriation of $7,224,000

 ii.      Resolution Authorizing and Directing the City Manager to Execute a Deductive Change
          Order to the Thompson Builders Corporation Construction Agreement for the San
          Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project in the Amount of $724,000, For a
          Revised Contract Appropriation of $6,500,000

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:          Kertz & Llorens Gulati
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

       Resolution 15149 – Resolution Authorizing and Directing the City Manager to Execute a
       Deductive Change Order to the Thompson Builders Corporation Construction Agreement for the
       San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project in the Amount of $724,000, For a Revised
       Contract Appropriation of $6,500,000

iii.      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional
          Services Agreement with AlphaCM, Inc. for Construction Management, Inspection,
          and Testing Services Associated with the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction
          Project, in the Amount Not to Exceed $515,716

       Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

       Resolution 15150 – Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
       Professional Services Agreement with AlphaCM, Inc. for Construction Management, Inspection,
       and Testing Services Associated with the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project, in
       the Amount Not to Exceed $515,716

iv.       Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Second
          Amendment to the Professional Services Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh
          Engineering Group, Inc. for Bid, Construction, and Environmental Compliance Support
          Services Associated with the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project, in the
          Amount Not to Exceed $130,550, for a Revised Total Agreement Amount of $504,567

       Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

       Resolution 15151 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Second
       Amendment to the Professional Services Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group,
                                                                                             8
      Inc. for Bid, Construction, and Environmental Compliance Support Services Associated with the
      San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project, in the Amount Not to Exceed $130,550, for
      a Revised Total Agreement Amount of $504,567

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      September 30, 2022 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Members:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Chair Kate
NOES:   Members:        None
ABSENT: Members:        None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:40 p.m.


                                                          ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                    _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                            9
