                                                  MINUTES


                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2025

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-1
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 863-4489-1398#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL—EXISTING LITIGATION pursuant to Government
           Code Section 54956.9(d)(1)
           Lopez, et al. v. City of San Rafael, et al. U.S. District Court, Northern District for California,
           Case No. 23-cv-03652-VC

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session.
Mayor Kate offered gratitude to City staff for their efforts related to the fire located at 516 Canal
Street, highlighted September’s Marin Magazine ‘Ode to San Rafael’, and delivered a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • Two agenda items: park impact fees and affordable housing requirements—were
         removed to allow for additional community outreach.
       • A fire occurred at 516 Canal Street in San Rafael, resulting in the tragic loss of two
         community members and the displacement of others. The City Manager expressed
         appreciation for first responders, City staff, and community partners for their efforts.
         Fire Chief Abraham Roman and Police Chief David Spiller also provided comments.
         Donations are being coordinated through the Marin Community Foundation and Canal
         Alliance.
       • Introduced Preya Nixon as the newly hired Senior Management Analyst in the City
         Manager’s Office.
       • Announced proclamations for Suicide Prevention Month and Hispanic Heritage Month.
       • Reported awards received by City staff:
         o The American Public Works Association (Northern California Chapter) recognized
             Gerardo Paredes as Public Fleet Staff of the Year and Ryan Montes as Manager of
             the Year for Public Right of Way.
         o The California Emergency Medical Services Authority recognized San Rafael Fire
             Department staff: Nurse Educator Katie Pannell received a Distinguished Service
             Medal; Firefighter/Paramedics Marisa Nieto Gomez and Graham Winkleman each
             received the EMS Cross Award; and Dr. Jordan Sax, Medical Director, received an
             Award for Clinical Excellence.
       • Announced upcoming community events:
         o Ember Stomp, September 6, 2025, 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m., at the Civic Center.
         o Movies in the Park: Paddington in Peru on September 12, 7:30–9:00 p.m. at Peacock
             Gap Park; and The Wild Robot on September 26, 6:45–8:45 p.m. at Gerstle Park.
         o Second Friday Art Walk, September 12, 6:00–9:00 p.m., downtown San Rafael.
         o West End Fridays Block Party, continuing Fridays from August through October,
             6:00–9:00 p.m.
         o Porchfest, September 21, all day, in the Gerstle Park neighborhood.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on a meeting with Marin Transit General Manager Nancy
          Whelan, and on attending Andy’s Market Pride and Joy event.
       • Councilmember Kertz announced Andy’s Market San Rafael Fire Foundation event on
          October 12, and reported on the Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority Board meeting,
          State of Care Summit event by Marin Center for Independent Living, China Camp
          Heritage Day, and the Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers
          (MCCMC) Legislative meeting.
                                                                                               2
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on attending the Finance Subcommittee meeting and
           expressed appreciation to staff for addressing a broken pipe.
       •   Councilmember Maika Llorens Gulati reported on attending a Marin Latino Leaders
           Summer Community Mixer, a Canal Promise Meeting hosted by Marin Promise, Steve
           Mason’s retirement party, and a fundraiser in support of victims of the 516 Canal
           Street fire. She also expressed appreciation to staff for their response to the fire.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART).

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Sue Berrell of San Rafael Heritage, Lue

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of August 18, 2025 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Electric Bicycle Safety Regulations in San Rafael
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2051: An Ordinance Adding Chapter 5.35 “Operation of
      Electric Mobility Devices” to the San Rafael Municipal Code to Regulate Electric Mobility
      Devices Within the City Limits of San Rafael; CEQA Determination: Exempt Pursuant to
      CEQA Guideline 15061(b)(3) (CC)
      Final adoption of Ordinance 2051

   c. Marin History Museum Boyd Gate House Use Agreement
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Use Agreement for Real Property at
      1125 B Street (Boyd Gate House) with the Marin History Museum; CEQA Determination:
      Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15061(B)(3) (CM)
      Adopted Resolution 15451

   d. Library Parcel Tax Rate for Fiscal Year 2025-26 - Revised
      Revised Report Establishing the Annual Rate Adjustment for the Special Library Services
      Parcel Tax for the Fiscal Year 2025-26 as Authorized by San Rafael Municipal Code
      Chapter 3.36 (Voter-Approved Measure D) (Fin)
      Accepted report

   e. Pickleweed Library Renovation Project
      Resolution Approving the Plans and Specifications for the Pickleweed Library Renovation
      Project, City Project No. 11428 (“Project”), Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to
      Execute the Construction Agreement with Arntz Builders, Inc. in the Amount of
      $1,984,974, and Authorizing the City Manager to Amend the Contract Amount Using
      Contingency Funds of $295,026, for a Total Not to Exceed Amount of $2,280,000; and
      Authorize the City Manager to Enter into a Professional Services Agreement with Unico
      Engineering for Construction Management in the Amount Not to Exceed $211,500;

                                                                                           3
      Appropriating $48,070 from the Library Memorial Fund (213); CEQA Determination
      Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15301 (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15452

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of Suicide Prevention Awareness Month

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation, and Kara Connors from the County of Marin Health
      and Human Services, and Mario Castillo from Buckalew Programs provided comments.

   b. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation, and Cecilia Zamora from Hispanic Chamber of
      Commerce provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings

   a. Park Impact Fee and Park Dedication and In-Lieu Fee Programs (REMOVED)
      Introduce an Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code Section 3.24 titled Park and
      Recreation Facilities Fee and Section 15.09 titled Park Dedication and In-Lieu Fees, to
      Update the Park Impact Fee and Park Dedication and In-Lieu Fee Programs, including
      waiving further reading of the Ordinance and referring to it by title only; and Resolution
      Adopting the Park Impact Fee Nexus Study, the Park Impact Fee Project List, and
      Establishing Updated Park Impact Fees and Park Dedication and In-Lieu Fee Requirements
      AGENDA ITEM REMOVED AT THE REQUEST OF STAFF

   b. Triennial Building Code Ordinance Amendments
      Introduction of an Ordinance Amending Title 12 (Building Regulations) of the Municipal
      Code of the City of San Rafael, by Repealing Title 12 and Amending Title 12 Thereof;
      Adopting the 2025 Edition of the California Building Code, the California Residential Code,
      the California Mechanical Code, the California Plumbing Code, the California Electrical
      Code, the California Existing Building Code, the California Green Building Standards Code,
      the California Energy Code, and the California Referenced Standards Code with
      Appendices and Amendments Herein; Adopting the 2024 Edition of the International
      Property Maintenance Code and the International Pool and Spa Code with Amendments;
      Amending Chapter 12.360 Single-Family Model Reach Code – FlexPath; Herein; and
      Adopting Findings of Fact Supporting the Amendments to the Code (CED)

      Sustainability Program Manager Cory Bytof presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

                                                                                          4
     Mayor Kate invited public comment.

     Speakers: Bill Carney of Sustainable San Rafael

     City Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to introduce the
     Ordinance, waive further reading, and refer to it by title only and setting a public hearing for
     Monday, September 15, 2025.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

     The City Clerk read the title of the Ordinance:
     An Ordinance Amending Title 12 (Building Regulations) of the Municipal Code of the City of
     San Rafael, by Repealing Title 12 and Amending Title 12 Thereof; Adopting the 2025 Edition
     of the California Building Code, the California Residential Code, the California Mechanical
     Code, the California Plumbing Code, the California Electrical Code, the California Existing
     Building Code, the California Green Building Standards Code, the California Energy Code,
     and the California Referenced Standards Code with Appendices and Amendments Herein;
     Adopting the 2024 Edition of the International Property Maintenance Code and the
     International Pool and Spa Code with Amendments; Amending Chapter 12.360 Single-
     Family Model Reach Code – FlexPath; Herein; and Adopting Findings of Fact Supporting the
     Amendments to the Code.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items

  a. Affordable Housing Requirements for Residential Development Projects (REMOVED)
     Resolution Amending Resolution 14890, “Guidelines for the Administration of the
     Affordable Housing Requirement Program” to Clarify Existing Policy and Practice (CED)
     AGENDA ITEM REMOVED AT THE REQUEST OF STAFF

  b. Response to Grand Jury Report on First Responders
     Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael’s
     Response to the Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Marin County First
     Responders: Supporting Those Who Support Us” (PD)

     Chief of Police David Spiller presented the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment

     Speakers: Salamah

     Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

     City Councilmembers provided comments.
                                                                                              5
   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael’s
   Response to the Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Marin County First
   Responders: Supporting Those Who Support Us”

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

  Adopted Resolution 15453

c. Response to the Grand Jury Report on Housing
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the Marin
   County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “The Worrisome Future of Marin Housing: Nimby
   Resistance Takes a Backseat to Economic Reality.” (CED)

   Community & Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle introduced Assistant Director
   Greg Minor who presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   City Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to adopt the Resolution
   Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the Marin County Civil
   Grand Jury Report Titled “The Worrisome Future of Marin Housing: Nimby Resistance Takes
   a Backseat to Economic Reality.”

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

  Adopted Resolution 15454

d. Fiscal Year 2024-25 Unaudited Results and Budget Amendments
   Year-End Budget Update and Resolutions Authorizing Amendments to the City of San
   Rafael Budget for Fiscal Year 2024-25 for the Purposes of Confirming Authorized
   Appropriations and Transfers and Authorizing Amendments to the FY 2025-26 Budget to
   Reflect Carry-Over of Available Unencumbered FY 2024-25 Appropriations for Specified
   Purposes, Totaling $14,262,684 (Fin)

   Finance Director Paul Navazio presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Al Vetere


                                                                                      6
      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report
      presenting preliminary, Fiscal Year (FY) 2024-25 unaudited financial results for the fiscal
      year ended June 30, 2025

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to adopt the
      Resolution adopting amendments to the City of San Rafael budget for Fiscal Year 2024-25
      for the purpose of confirming authorized appropriations and transfers

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Adopted Resolution 15455

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to adopt the Resolution
      authorizing amendments to the City of San Rafael budget for Fiscal Year 2025-26 to reflect
      carry-over of available unencumbered FY2024-25 appropriations for specified purposes
      totaling $14,262,684

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Adopted Resolution 15456

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Salamah Locks addressed the City Council regarding the Ember Stomp event, Financial
     Abuse Specialist Team (FAST), Age Friendly San Rafael, and Officer Nail’s trial to start
     Tuesday, September 16th, Marin Senior Fair on September 17th at the Veteran’s Hall, and
     addressed the City Council regarding the budget question raised during public comment.
  • Al Vetere addressed the City Council regarding getting mail scams
  • Nicole addressed the City Council regarding bike lanes on Pt. San Pedro Road

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:06 p.m.

                                                           __________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                                                          7
_____________________________________
          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                        8
