                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                             In-Person:
                                  San Rafael City Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Participate Virtually:
                    Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-08-01
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                      ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
in-person,    virtually   using    Zoom      and    is     being     streamed     to   YouTube     at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees
  • Use the sign-in sheet (optional) which allows notification of potentially exposed individuals if
      contact tracing reveals COVID-19 transmission may have occurred in a given meeting
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.
     Present:         Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
     Absent:          Councilmember Llorens Gulati
     Also Present:    Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the hybrid City Council meeting, gratitude
to City Staff, the City Manager’s newsletter (Snapshot), National Night Out and a land
acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would provide public
comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community
participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. None.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Durriya Syed, CA Department of Insurance, addressed the City Council regarding wildfire
     season programs.
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the City Council regarding Monkeypox, National Night Out, the
     Sheriff swearing-in and the Service Support Area.
  • Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding Monkeypox.
  • Al Vetere addressed the City Council regarding a code enforcement request.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
   • The City Council meeting set for August 15 has been cancelled. The next regular City
       Council meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 6. A special City Council meeting to be
       held on August 8 at 5:00 p.m.
   • COVID-19 Update

Councilmember Reports:

   •   Councilmember Kertz provided an update on the Homeless Policy Steering Committee.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), Marin Transit and
       SMART meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Damien

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Councilmember Hill disqualified himself from Consent Item 4.k. Item 4.k was pulled from the
Consent Calendar.

                                                                                        Page 2 of 7
Mayor Kate invited public comment on all Consent items, 4.a through 4.k.

Speakers: Matthew Hartzell, WTB-TAM, Gregory Andrew, David Smith, Eva Chrysanthe

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar, excluding Item 4.k.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council Regular Meeting of July 18, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15106 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic

   c. SB 9 Housing Development and Urban Lot Split Regulations
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2013: An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael Amending Title
      14 (Zoning Ordinance) and Title 15 (Subdivisions) of the San Rafael Municipal Code Related
      to Regulations to Implement Provisions of SB 9 (CC)
      Final adoption of Ordinance 2013

   d. Leaf Blower Ordinance
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2014: An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael Adding Chapter
      8.40 to the San Rafael Municipal Code Entitled “Regulation of Small Off-Road Engines”,
      Related to Regulating Operation of Leaf Blowers (CC)
      Final adoption of Ordinance 2014

   e. Legal Services Contract
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Approve and Execute an Agreement with
      Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for Essential Legal Services to Supplement Staff in the
      City Attorney’s Office, in an Amount Not to Exceed $150,000 (CA)
      Resolution 15107 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Approve and Execute an
      Agreement with Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for Essential Legal Services to Supplement Staff
      in the City Attorney’s Office, in an Amount Not to Exceed $150,000

   f. Microsoft Licensing Renewal
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Required Forms to Renew the
      City’s Enrollment with Microsoft Corporation as Part of a Joint Microsoft Enterprise
      Agreement, and Issue Purchase Orders to Software One, Inc., for Microsoft Software
      Licenses at a Cost Not to Exceed $240,000 Per Year for the Next Three Years (DS)
      Resolution 15108 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Required Forms to
      Renew the City’s Enrollment with Microsoft Corporation as Part of a Joint Microsoft Enterprise


                                                                                          Page 3 of 7
     Agreement, and Issue Purchase Orders to Software One, Inc., for Microsoft Software Licenses at
     a Cost Not to Exceed $240,000 Per Year for the Next Three Years

g. Spinnaker Point Parking Modifications Project
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Award and Execute a Construction Agreement
   for the Spinnaker Point Parking Modifications Project, City Project No. 11363, to Michael
   Paul Company, Inc. in the Amount of $844,693, and Authorizing Contingency Funds of
   $125,307 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $970,000 (PW)
   Resolution 15109 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Award and Execute a
   Construction Agreement for the Spinnaker Point Parking Modifications Project, City Project No.
   11363, to Michael Paul Company, Inc. in the Amount of $844,693, and Authorizing Contingency
   Funds of $125,307 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $970,000

h. 2022/23 Slurry Seal Project
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Award and Execute a Construction Agreement
   for the 2022/23 Slurry Seal Project, City Project No. 11415, to American Asphalt Repair
   Resurfacing Co., Inc. in the Amount of $737,600, and Authorizing Contingency Funds of
   $82,400, for a Total Appropriated Amount of $820,000 (PW)
   Resolution 15110 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Award and Execute a
   Construction Agreement for the 2022/23 Slurry Seal Project, City Project No. 11415, to
   American Asphalt Repair Resurfacing Co., Inc. in the Amount of $737,600, and Authorizing
   Contingency Funds of $82,400, for a Total Appropriated Amount of $820,000

i.   Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Agreement
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with the County of
     Marin for the Use of $184,008 of Community Development Block Grant Funds for the
     City’s Canal Area Pump Station Improvements Project (PW)
     Resolution 15111 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with the
     County of Marin for the Use of $184,008 of Community Development Block Grant Funds for the
     City’s Canal Area Pump Station Improvements Project

j.   Manuel T. Freitas/101 North Ramps Roundabout
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Approve and Execute a Cooperative
     Agreement with Caltrans to Contribute Funds for Professional Engineering Services
     Associated with the Manuel T. Freitas Roundabout Project in an Amount Not to Exceed
     $400,000 (PW)
     Resolution 15112 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Approve and Execute a
     Cooperative Agreement with Caltrans to Contribute Funds for Professional Engineering Services
     Associated with the Manuel T. Freitas Roundabout Project in an Amount Not to Exceed
     $400,000

     AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

k. Third Street Rehabilitation Project
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Contract Change Order for the Third
   Street Rehabilitation Project to Ghilotti Bros. Inc. in the Amount of $298,795 From the
   Project Contingency (PW)

     This item was held from the Consent Calendar.
                                                                                        Page 4 of 7
      City Attorney Rob Epstein provided comments. Councilmember Hill could remain on the
      dais for this Consent item, even though he disqualified himself.

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve Item 4.k.

      AYES:    Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:    Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati
      RECUSED: Councilmembers:          Hill

      Councilmember Hill was present, but disqualified himself.

      Resolution 15113 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Contract Change Order
      for the Third Street Rehabilitation Project to Ghilotti Bros. Inc. in the Amount of $298,795 From
      the Project Contingency

PUBLIC HEARING
5. Public Hearing:

   a. Amendment to Zoning Ordinance to Allow Animal Care Facilities as a Conditionally
      Permitted Use in the Office (O) Zoning District
      Introduction of an Ordinance Amending the Text of the San Rafael Municipal Code, Table
      14.05.020 Under Section 14.05.020, Land Use Regulations (GC, NC, O, C/O, R/O, FBWC)
      to Allow Animal Care Facilities as a Conditionally Permitted Use in the Office (O) District
      Subject to Performance Standards; Amending the Text of Table 14.06.020 Under Section
      14.06.020, Land Use Regulations (I, LI/O, CCI/O, LMU) to Subject Animal Care Facilities to
      Performance Standards; and Amending Text of Chapter 14.17 to Establish Performance
      Standards for Animal Care Facilities (CD)

      Ali Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Jayni Allsep, City Consultant who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Riley Hurd, Al Vetere, Gregory Andrew

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      City Clerk Lindsay Lara read the title of the ordinance

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to waive further
      reading of the ordinance and refer to it by title only, and introduce the ordinance.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

      Waived further reading and refer to it by title only and Introduced the Ordinance
                                                                                            Page 5 of 7
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Rafael 2023-2031 Housing Element
      Report on 2023-2031 Housing Element Opportunity Sites Inventory (CD)

      Ali Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Barry Miller, City Consultant who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Ray Lorber, Al Vetere, Stuart Watson, David Smith, Gregory Andrew

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Llorens Gulati

      Accepted report

   b. Grand Jury Report on Electrifying Marin’s Buildings
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael’s
      Response to the 2021-2022 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Electrifying
      Marin’s Buildings: A Countywide Approach” (CM)

      Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Arlin Benavides, Sustainable San Rafael, David Moller, Marin/Sonoma Building
      Electrification Squad, Ken Strong, Marin Conservation League, Kay Karchevski, Belle Cole,
      Organizing for Action Marin, Pam Reaves, Marin Conservation League

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Staff provided comments.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

                                                                                     Page 6 of 7
      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15114 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San
      Rafael’s Response to the 2021-2022 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Electrifying
      Marin’s Buildings: A Countywide Approach”

   c. Hearing on Resolution of Necessity Initiating Eminent Domain Process to Acquire a Portion
      of 700/740 Francisco Boulevard West, San Rafael, California in Connection with Phase 1
      of the Francisco Boulevard West Multi-Use Pathway Project
      Resolution to Determine the Necessity to Acquire a Portion of Property by Eminent
      Domain in Connection with Phase 1 of the Francisco Boulevard West Multi-Use Pathway
      Project; To Authorize Commencement of Litigation to Acquire Property by Eminent
      Domain; And to Seek an Order of Possession (Code of Civil Procedure Section 1245.220)
      (CA/PW)

      Genevieve Coyle, Assistant City Attorney presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15115 - Resolution to Determine the Necessity to Acquire a Portion of Property by
      Eminent Domain in Connection with Phase 1 of the Francisco Boulevard West Multi-Use Pathway
      Project; To Authorize Commencement of Litigation to Acquire Property by Eminent Domain; And
      to Seek an Order of Possession (Code of Civil Procedure Section 1245.220)

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9: 49 p.m.


                                                          ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                    _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         Page 7 of 7
