                                                 MINUTES



                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2025

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-1
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 863-4489-1398#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

        Mayor Kate invited public comment.

        Speaker: Ken Dickinson

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. Public Employee Performance Evaluation (Section 54957)
           Title: City Manager
           Conference with Labor Negotiators (Section 54957.6)
           Agency Designated Representatives: Mayor Kate Colin, Vice Mayor Maribeth Bushey
           Unrepresented Employee: City Manager

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll.

City Attorney Rob Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session, and
it was scheduled to reconvene following the adjournment of the Regular meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, reporting issues
through See Click Fix, signing up for Snapshot (bimonthly City Manager newsletter), and a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • 350 Merrydale Update - Community Meeting to be held Tuesday, December 9, Venetia
         Valley School - Multipurpose Room, 6-7:30 p.m.
       • 2026 Public Service Award nominations are open – Submissions due Friday, February 6
       • 2nd Friday Art Walk to be held Friday, December 12, Downtown, 5-8 p.m.
       • 2025 Lighted Boat Parade (with Police Department) to be held Saturday, December 13,
         6-9 p.m.
       • Giant Menorah Lighting & Gelt Drop to be held Sunday, December 21, Downtown City
         Plaza, 5 p.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation District board meeting (and a
          Closed Session afterwards) and a Marin Transit Board meeting.
       • Councilmember Kertz had no items to report.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on the November 4 Finance Subcommittee meeting, the
          Interim Shelter Project Open House at Osher Marin JCC, and the November 12 City
          Council Retreat.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on an ad hoc subcommittee meeting regarding
          Starkweather Path, a Police Department service recognition and promotional
          ceremony, Thanksgiving in the Canal neighborhood (with Voces del Canal), a Marin
          Clean Energy (MCE) board of directors meeting, the Winter Wonderland event, Shop
          Small Saturday, a Marin Transit Board meeting and a MCE Clean Energy executive
          committee meeting.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART) meeting and a
          Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Gregory Andrew

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.


                                                                                              2
Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Jennifer Wallace, Wayne Rayburn, Marianne Nannestad, Frank Mason,
Gregory Andrew

Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meetings of November 3, 2025 and
      November 17, 2025 (CC)
      Approved Minutes as submitted

   b. 350 Merrydale Ordinance Adoption
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2057:
      An Uncodified Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael Adopting
      Reasonable Local Standards and Procedures for Homeless Shelters Pursuant to
      Government Code Sections 8698, Et Seq; CEQA Determination: Not a Project Per
      Government Code Sections 65660(b), 65662; CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(2), (4), (5);
      Alternatively Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines 15061(b)(3) [Common Sense]; 15269(c)
      [Emergency] (CC)
      Approved Final Adoption of Ordinance 2057

   c. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Business Assessment Annual Renewal
      Resolution Approving the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District Annual
      Report, Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual Assessment for Calendar
      Year 2026 for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District, and Setting a
      Public Hearing (CED)
      Adopted Resolution 15481

   d. Funding Agreements to Prepare the Northgate and Southeast San Rafael Specific Plans
      Resolutions Authorizing the City Manager to Enter Into: (CED)

      i.   Supplement No. 3 to the Master Funding Agreement Between the Metropolitan
           Transportation Commission (“MTC”) and the City of San Rafael to Fund the Preparation
           of the Northgate Specific Plan and Authorizing Supplemental Budget Appropriations
           Totaling $797,000 in Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26
           Adopted Resolution 15482

     ii.   Supplement No. 4 to the Master Funding Agreement Between the Metropolitan
           Transportation Commission (“MTC”) and the City of San Rafael to Fund the Preparation
           of the Southeast San Rafael Specific Plan and Authorizing Supplemental Budget
           Appropriations Totaling $797,000 in Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26
           Adopted Resolution 15483

   e. San Rafael Traffic Signal System Consultant Support Services
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment to Task Order No.
      102 with Advanced Mobility Group for Additional Transportation Design Engineering
                                                                                         3
     Services Associated with Ongoing Support of San Rafael’s Traffic Signal System, in the
     Amount Not to Exceed $100,000, Increasing the Total Not to Exceed Amount Under the
     Task Order to $170,000 (PW)
     Adopted Resolution 15484

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
5. Other Agenda Items

  a. 2025-2027 Three-Year Pavement Management Plan
     Informational Presentation on 2025-2027 Three-Year Pavement Management Plan (PW)

     Senior Civil Engineer Grey Melgard presented the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to receive the
     informational plan and presentation.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

     Received Informational Plan and Presentation

  b. Year-End Audited Financial Statements and Related Audit Reports
     Fiscal Year 2024-25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report; Memorandum on Internal
     Control; Report of Required Communications; Child Development Program Financial
     Report: And GANN Appropriations Limit (Fin)

     Finance Director Paul Navazio and Whitney Crockett, CPA Audit Partner, Maze &
     Associates presented the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from the Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the Fiscal
     Year (FY) 2024-25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, Memorandum on Internal
     Control, Report of Required Communications, Child Development Program Financial Report,
     and GANN Appropriations Limit Report.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

                                                                                        4
      Accepted the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024-25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, Memorandum
      on Internal Control, Report of Required Communications, Child Development Program Financial
      Report, and GANN Appropriations Limit Report

   c. FY2025-26 First Quarter Budget Update
      FY2025-26 First Quarter Budget Update: Revenue and Expenditure Results for the
      Quarter Ending September 30, 2025 (Fin)

      Finance Director Paul Navazio presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the FY 2025-26
      First Quarter Budget Update, presenting revenue and expenditure results through the first
      quarter of the fiscal year 2025-26 ending September 30, 2025, in Attachment A (in the Staff
      Report).

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted the FY 2025-26 First Quarter Budget Update, presenting revenue and expenditure
      results through the first quarter of the fiscal year 2025-26 ending September 30, 2025, in
      Attachment A (in the Staff Report)

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
• Ken Dickinson addressed the City Council regarding Open Time for Public Expression and
  requested it be moved back to the beginning or middle of the meeting, as well as, requested
  caption files of meetings be available online.
• Frank Mason addressed the City Council regarding the 350 Merrydale process and what he has
  learned. He requested the creation of a committee for the homeless tiny homes project.
• Herb Moran addressed the City Council requesting the City abandon designating the north side
  of the 300 block (of Jewell Street) as a “no parking zone.”

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 7:44 p.m.
                                                           __________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             5
