                                                    Minutes

                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, JULY 6, 2020
                                       REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                                         Telephone: (669) 900-9128,
                                             ID: 859-7732-5943

                              CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE

In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person meeting
location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted according
to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for any interrupted
service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments to the City Clerk
prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments, please visit our Live
Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s office
at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:            Mayor Phillips
                        Vice Mayor Colin
                        Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Gamblin
                        Councilmember McCullough
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Jim Schutz
                        City Attorney Rob Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

 Mayor Phillips called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll. All
 members of the City Council were present.

 City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and
 members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through YouTube live
 chat. She explained the process for community participation through the telephone and on YouTube.
CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz provided updates on:
• the status of the Mayor’s task force looking at the use of force policies at the Police Department • the
City’s goals and objectives
• the City’s response to COVID-19

Mayor Phillips briefly spoke on:
• San Quentin and COVID-19
• the task force looking at the use of force policies at the Police Department

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
Mayor Phillips invited public comment

Correspondence in real-time through YouTube or telephone
    • Name withheld addressed the City Council regarding hair salons
    • Eder Ruiz addressed the City Council regarding abolition

CONSENT CALENDAR:

Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none

Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve Consent Calendar
Items:

AYES:       Councilmembers:        Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
NOES:       Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT:     Councilmembers:        None

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, June 15, 2020
      and Special Meeting of June 29, 2020 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Statement of Economic Interests Annual Filings
      Report on Fair Political Practices Commission Form 700, Statement of Economic Interests, 2019
      Annual Filings, for Section 87200 Filers and Designated Employees, Including Consultants, Design
      Review Board, and Park and Recreation Commission (CC)
      Accepted report

   c. Legal Services Contract
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with Burke,
      Williams & Sorensen, LLP for Essential Legal Services to Supplement Staff in the City Attorney’s
      Office, In An Amount Not to Exceed $150,000 (CD)
      Resolution 14832 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
      Agreement with Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for Essential Legal Services to Supplement Staff in
      the City Attorney’s Office, In An Amount Not to Exceed $150,000
                                                                                                   2
   d. General Plan 2040 / Downtown Precise Plan Project Manager Agreement Amendment
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Second Amendment to the Agreement
      for Professional Planning Services with Barry J. Miller to Serve as Project Manager for General
      Plan 2040 and Downtown Precise Plan (CD)
      Resolution 14833 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Second Amendment to
      the Agreement for Professional Planning Services with Barry J. Miller to Serve as Project Manager
      for General Plan 2040 and Downtown Precise Plan

   e. Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Grant Application
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Submit an Application for, and Receipt of, Local Early
      Action Planning (LEAP) Grant Funds in the Amount of $300,000, and to Execute Documents or
      Amendments Once the Grant is Awarded (CD)
      Resolution 14834 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Submit an Application for, and
      Receipt of, Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Grant Funds in the Amount of $300,000, and to
      Execute Documents or Amendments Once the Grant is Awarded

   f. Crime Analyst Services
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for Crime Analysis Services
      with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., in an Amount Not to Exceed $140,979, and Appropriating this
      Amount from the Safety Grant Fund to Support the Agreement (PD)
      Resolution 14835 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for Crime
      Analysis Services with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., in an Amount Not to Exceed $140,979, and
      Appropriating this Amount from the Safety Grant Fund to Support the Agreement

   g. Grant Funding for 9-1-1 Equipment Upgrade
      Resolution Granting the Chief of Police Authority to Use Funding in the Amount of $287,000 from
      the California Office of Emergency Services, 9-1-1 Emergency Communications Branch to Upgrade
      the Police Departments Emergency and Non-Emergency Telephone Equipment in Fiscal Year
      2020/2021 (PD)
      Resolution 14836 - Resolution Granting the Chief of Police Authority to Use Funding in the Amount
      of $287,000 from the California Office of Emergency Services, 9-1-1 Emergency Communications
      Branch to Upgrade the Police Departments Emergency and Non-Emergency Telephone Equipment
      in Fiscal Year 2020/2021

   h. Caltrans Maintenance Agreement
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment to the
      Project Specific Maintenance Agreement with the State of California Department of
      Transportation (Caltrans) for Maintenance of Portions of Lucas Valley Road and Smith Ranch
      Road Within State Right-Of-Way (PW)
      Resolution 14837 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Project Specific Maintenance Agreement with the State of California
      Department of Transportation (Caltrans) for Maintenance of Portions of Lucas Valley Road and
      Smith Ranch Road Within State Right-Of-Way

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS:
5. Special Presentation:

   a. Juneteenth
      Resolution in Annual Commemoration and Proclamation of Juneteenth

                                                                                                3
       Jim Schutz, City Manager introduced Antonette Bullock, Police Services Specialist, who presented
       the resolution

     Councilmembers provided comments

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

       Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the resolution
       subject to the replacement of the word “edify,” in the fourth recital of the resolution, with the word
       “respect”

      AYES:        Councilmembers:         Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers:         None

       Resolution 14838 - Resolution in Annual Commemoration and Proclamation of Juneteenth

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. 1499 Lucas Valley Road Environmental and Design Review Permit and Exception
      Resolution Approving Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED19-099) and Exception (EX20-
      001) for the Construction of a 901 Sq. Ft. Bathroom/Closet Addition to an Existing 8,592 Sq. Ft.
      Single-Family Residence Located at 1499 Lucas Valley Rd. (APN: 165-010-89) (CD)

       Raffi Boloyan, Planning Manager presented the Staff Report

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

       Staff and Maureen Jochum, Architect at Jochum Architects, responded to questions from
       Councilmembers

       Councilmember Gamblin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the
       resolution

     AYES:         Councilmembers:         Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers:         None

       Resolution 14839 - Resolution Approving Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED19-099) and
       Exception (EX20-001) for the Construction of a 901 Sq. Ft. Bathroom/Closet Addition to an Existing
       8,592 Sq. Ft. Single-Family Residence Located at 1499 Lucas Valley Rd. (APN: 165-010-89)

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. General Plan 2040 Transportation Standards
      Recommended Standards for Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) and Transportation Level of Service
      (LOS) for General Plan 2040 (CD)

                                                                                                      4
   Paul Jensen, Community Development Director, Bob Grandy, Director of Transit Services at Fehr &
   Peers, and Rafat Raie, Deputy Public Works Director presented the Staff Report

   Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Speakers: David Smith, Scott Frerich, Claire Halenbeck, Shirley Fischer, Name withheld

   Staff responded to public comment

   Staff responded to further comments and questions from Councilmembers

   Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Colin seconded to accept the proposed
   screening criteria as set forth in recommendation number one

   AYES:      Councilmembers:        Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
  NOES:       Councilmembers:        None
  ABSENT:     Councilmembers:        None

    Accepted proposed VMT screening criteria and thresholds for General Plan 2040 and future CEQA
    determinations, as required by SB 743.

   Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Gamblin seconded to delay accepting
   proposed Policy M-2.5 and ask that staff bring it back at a later date, more refined and with
   specificity, as to how the Level of Service will be used in conjunction with VMT in approving a
   project

    AYES:     Councilmembers:        Gamblin & McCullough
   NOES:      Councilmembers:        Bushey, Colin & Mayor Phillips
  ABSENT:     Councilmembers:        None

   Motion failed

   Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the proposed
   approach to retaining LOS in General Plan 2040 and subsequent planning and development review
   procedures

    AYES:     Councilmembers:        Bushey, Colin & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:        Gamblin & McCullough
  ABSENT:     Councilmembers:        None

   Accepted proposed approach to retaining LOS in General Plan 2040 and subsequent planning and
   development review procedures.


b. Grand Jury Report on Cyberattacks
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael’s Response to
   the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled, “Cyberattacks: A Growing Threat
   to Marin Government” (DS)
                                                                                            5
       Rebecca Woodbury, Director of Digital Service and Open Government presented the Staff Report

       Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

       Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution

       AYES:      Councilmembers:        Bushey, Colin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:      Councilmembers:        None
       ABSENT:    Councilmembers:        Gamblin

       Resolution 14840 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San
       Rafael’s Response to the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled, “Cyberattacks:
       A Growing Threat to Marin Government”

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
8. Councilmember Reports:

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

   Mayor Phillips adjourned the City Council meeting at 9:22 p.m.



                                                             ___________________________
                                                              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                              APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2020

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                           GARY O. PHILLIPS, Mayor




                                                                                                6
