                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2025




This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Third Floor Conference Room
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                          Watch Online:
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/spcc-2025-10-06
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 829-1614-4737#

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey (Left the room at 5:03 p.m., returned 5:05 p.m.)
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    SPECIAL MEETING
    1. Special Meeting:

        a. Boards, Commissions, and Committees Interviews
           Interview Applicants and Make Appointments to the Board of Library Trustees and the Fire
           Commission to the End of October 2029 (CC)

            The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Board of Library Trustees:
            Alexander Vahdat, Michael Polk and Caroline Doyle.

            Vice Mayor Bushey moved, and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint Alexander
            Vahdat and to appoint Michael Polk to the Board of Library Trustees to the end of October
            2029.

           AYES:   Councilmembers:             Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
           NOES:   Councilmembers:             None
           ABSENT: Councilmembers:             Llorens Gulati
       The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Fire Commission: Donna
       McCusker, Kenneth Johnson and Robert Mittelstaedt.

       Councilmember Hill moved, and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint Donna
       McCusker and Kenneth Johnson to the Fire Commission to the end of October 2029.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting to Closed Session at 5:07 p.m.

                             REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                          1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                     Watch Online:
                  Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-1
                  Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                            Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                  ID: 863-4489-1398#

Present:          Vice Mayor Bushey
                  Councilmember Hill
                  Councilmember Kertz
                  Mayor Kate
Absent:           Councilmember Llorens Gulati
Also Present:     City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                  City Attorney Robert Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. Councilmember Llorens Gulati was absent.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session;
however, the second case was continued following the adjournment of the City Council meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City Staff, an announcement
of Walter Gonzalez named as Employee of the Quarter for the 2nd Quarter, how the Federal
Government shutdown affects San Rafael, and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would be recorded and
streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public comment
and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
2. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
3. Closed Session:

                                                                                            2
   a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION pursuant to
      Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(2) (2 potential cases)

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • Downtown Library Grand Reopening and appreciation to Staff
       • Fire Prevention Week
       • Fire at 32 Woodland Avenue today
       • Homelessness and Housing Subcommittee meeting to be held October 21 at 11 a.m. at
         City Hall (in the large upstairs conference room)
       • Police Advisory and Accountability Committee meeting to be held October 15 at 5:30
         p.m. at City Hall (in Chambers)
       • Pickleweed Park Ribbon Cutting & Movies in the Park to be held October 10 starting at
         5 p.m.
       • West End Block Party to be held October 10 from 6-9 p.m. downtown (from F to G
         Streets)
       • Public Safety Center Open House (across from City Hall) to be held October 11 from 10-
         1 p.m.
       • Mill Valley Film Festival is ongoing, October 2-12
       • Halloween & Seasonal Community Events
             o Costume Swap at Pickleweed Park to be held October 14 from 4–6 p.m.
             o Floating Pumpkin Patch at Terra Linda Pool to be held October 18 from 1–3 p.m.
             o Treat Walk at B Street Community Center to be held October 23 from 4–6 p.m.
             o Trick-Or-Treat on Fourth Street hosted by the Downtown BID to be held
                 October 25 from 1-3 p.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on the library reopening, Porchfest, a San Rafael
          Sanitation District board meeting, the San Rafael High School Hall of Honor
          celebration and Marin Sanitary Customer Appreciation Day.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on the library ribbon cutting, the Marin Senior Fair, a
          Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority board meeting, the Marin Center for Independent
          Living’s new Executive Director Ted Jackson, Porchfest, a Marin County Council of
          Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) Legislative and General meeting, the Landfill
          Harmonic Band at Latino Chamber of Commerce, the Spirit of Marin Awards, the
          Badge Pinning Ceremony, a Sustainable San Rafael event honoring Bill Carney, the
          Canal Alliance Community Fair, and the Mill Valley Film Festival opening night.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on Porchfest and expressed appreciation for the
          volunteers, a MCCMC meeting, the Fire Department’s badge pinning and awards
          ceremony and the Sustainable San Rafael event.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART), Transportation
          Authority of Marin (TAM), the Walk and Roll to school event, a Street Smarts campaign
          and the Marin Gun Safety Collaborative.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Al Vetere

                                                                                         3
CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate requested item 5.b be removed from the Consent Calendar for comments.

Mayor Kate invited public comment on the remainder of the Consent Calendar.

Speaker: Al Vetere

Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the remainder of the
Consent Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

Item 5.b
Director of Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle presented the Staff
Report for item 5.b.

Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Don Dickenson, Craig Fenech, Ron Clyman, Sara Sonnet, Michael Poryes, Name
Withheld, Chris Weiker, Tim Blair, Gary Ragghianti

Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

City Councilmembers provided comments.

Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve item 5.b.

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

Adopted Resolution 15464

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of September 15, 2025 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Agreement for Environmental Consulting Services for the Dominican Residential Development
       Project and Associated Supplemental Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Budget Appropriation
       Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to (1) Execute a Professional Services Agreement
       with Environmental Science Associates (ESA) In an Amount Not to Exceed $675,221 for
       Environmental Consulting Services for the Dominican Residential Development Project
       (PLAN23-081) Located at Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 015-163-03 and (2)
       Appropriate Supplemental Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-2026 Budget Appropriations Totaling
       $675,221 (CED)
                                                                                         4
      Adopted Resolution 15464

   c. Replacement of Fire Hoses and Nozzles
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Purchase Orders for Firefighting
      Hoses from L.N. Curtis & Sons, Inc., In an Amount Not to Exceed $82,506, and for Hoses
      and Nozzles from Allstar Fire Equipment Inc., In an Amount Not to Exceed $152,718 (FD)
      Adopted Resolution 15460

   d. Wireless Access Point Upgrade
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Purchase Order for the Replacement
      of Wireless Access Points, In an Amount Not to Exceed $128,299 (DS)
      Adopted Resolution 15461

   e. Information Technology Services Agreement Renewal
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Service Agreement with
      Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from November 1, 2025, through
      October 31, 2026, In an Amount Not to Exceed $1,207,200 (DS)
      Adopted Resolution 15462

   f. Cybersecurity Awareness Month
      Proclamation in Recognition of Support of Cybersecurity Awareness Month (DS)
      Received and filed

   g. Measure C – Wildfire Prevention Fund
      Resolution Authorizing a Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26 Supplemental Budget Appropriation
      from Measure C, Wildfire Prevention Fund (242) Fund Balance In the Amount of
      $1,108,319 to Support Ongoing Wildfire Prevention Efforts (Fin)
      Adopted Resolution 15463

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of Fire Prevention Week 2025 (FD)
      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation and Fire Chief Abraham Roman provided
      comments.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items

   a. Capital Project Management Services Contract for Albert Park Library & Community
      Center and Measure P Project Update
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
      with Griffin Structures for Albert Park Library & Community Center Capital Project
      Management Services, In an Amount Not to Exceed $350,000 in FY 2025-26; And
      Subsequent Amendments Based on Each Fiscal Year’s Appropriation for a Total Contract
      Amount Not to Exceed $4,440,606 Through Project Completion; Measure P Project
      Update (CM)

      Assistant City Manager John Stefanski presented the Staff Report and introduced Gary
                                                                                       5
      Chubb, Griffin Structures who provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.
      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the Resolution
      authorizing the City Manager to execute a Professional Services Agreement with Griffin
      Structures for Albert Park Library & Community Center capital project management
      services, In an amount not to exceed $350,000 in FY 2025-26; and subsequent amendments
      based on each fiscal year’s appropriation for a total contract amount not to exceed
      $4,440,606 through project completion; Measure P project update.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Adopted Resolution 15465

   b. Wildfire Prevention Efforts in San Rafael from 2019-2025
      Informational Report on the 38-Point Wildfire Prevention and Protection Action Plan (FD)

      Wildfire Mitigation Program Manager Kate Anderson and Deputy Director of Emergency
      Management Quinn Gardner presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Salamah, Sherna Deamer, Montecito Area Residents’ Association, Belle Cole

      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to accept the report and
      proposed revision.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Accepted report and proposed revision

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Steve Danaher addressed the City Council regarding crime at 7-Eleven on B Street.
  • Sergio Barajas, Carpenters Union Local 35, addressed the City Council regarding labor
     standards for upcoming projects in San Rafael.
  • Tammy Edmonson, MVFREE, addressed the City Council regarding the Police Advisory and
                                                                                        6
       Accountability Committee.
   •   Ed Rusky, MVFREE, addressed the City Council regarding the Police Advisory and
       Accountability Committee.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:16 p.m.

                                                        __________________________
                                                        LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                        7
