                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, JULY 17, 2023

                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                              In-Person:
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                       Participate Virtually:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2023-07-17
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 860 6190 5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

This meeting will be held in-person. The public may attend in-person or participate virtually using Zoom.
This meeting is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:
  • Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
      city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
  • Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
  • Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and press *9 to raise your hand, and *6
      to unmute yourself, then provide verbal public comment.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. None.

 Present:      Councilmember Bushey
               Councilmember Hill
               Councilmember Kertz
               Mayor Kate
 Absent:       Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati
 Also Present: City Manager Cristine Alilovich
               Assistant City Attorney Genevieve Coyle
               Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi
    to call the roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included appreciation to City staff, the hot weather
    and wildfire risk reminder and a land acknowledgment.
Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi informed the community that the in-person meeting would also
be recorded and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would
provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for
community participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Erica Blair addressed the City Council regarding the parcel sold by Dominican University
     proposed for development.
  • Richard Schulz addressed the City Council regarding Northgate development.
  • Nicole Skibola, Cosmic View addressed the City Council regarding a microbusiness license in
     the local cannabis industry.
  • Cristine Skibola, Cosmic View addressed the City Council regarding a microbusiness license in
     the local cannabis industry.
  • Dave Rhoads, Walk/Bike San Rafael addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed
     limit on 4th Street.
  • Jeff Chase, California Homeless Union addressed the City Council reading words from the
     Torah.
  • Michael Jobe addressed the City Council regarding speedbumps on G Street.
  • Greg Browman, Strictly Topical Incorporated addressed the City Council regarding a
     microbusiness license in the local cannabis industry.
  • Al Vetere addressed the City Council regarding a mural on an abandoned building and cooling
     centers.
  • Daniel Campbell addressed the City Council regarding the fire last June near Dominican
     University.
  • Jim Davis addressed the City Council regarding fire concerns in the Dominican area.
  • Matthew Hartzell, WTB-TAM addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed limit on
     4th Street.
  • Tylee Holden, addressed the City Council regarding the parcel sold by Dominican University
     proposed for development.
  • Jana Zanetto, Walk/Bike San Rafael addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed
     limit on 4th Street.
  • David Seltzer, Walk/Bike San Rafael addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed
     limit on 4th Street.
  • Susan Nawbary addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed limit on 4th Street.
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the City Council regarding support for AB 43 and downtown
     speedbumps and inquired about police bodycams. Also, she spoke of civilian oversight.
  • Name withheld addressed the City Council regarding website links and her radar gun
     experience.
  • Nathan Cohen addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed limit on 4th Street.
  • Heather Marty Cochran addressed the City Council regarding lowering the speed limit on 4th
     Street concerns. Also, she inquired about the fire and expressed environmental concerns in the
     Dominican area.

April Miler, Public Works Director provided comments on AB 43.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
       • New City Department Directors: Paul Navazio, Finance Director and Marissa Sanchez,
         Human Resources Director

                                                                                             2
       •   Farmers Market, every Thursday
       •   2nd Friday Art Walk and Dining Under the Lights to be held Friday, August 11
       •   Community survey and application available for Police Advisory and Accountability
           Committee (PAAC)
       •   Canal Alliance and Marin Small Business Development Center to start on-line and in
           Spanish 10 session workshop (How to Start and Grow your Business) on August 1
       •   Regular City Council meeting on August 7 to be cancelled; Next regular meeting to be
           held August 21

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a tour of Cedars Textile Arts Center, throwing the first
          pitch at a San Rafael Pacifics game and a ribbon-cutting for the Sun Valley playground.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Loch Lomond Homeowners Association meeting,
          a Central Marin Sanitation Agency meeting and a lunch hosted by the San Rafael Yacht
          Club with Congressman Huffman.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin and SMART meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore, Eva Chrysanthe

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special City Council Meeting of July 10, 2023 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Police Department Copy/Print Hardware Lease and Services
      Authorize the City Manager to Negotiate and Enter into an Agreement with UBEO West
      LLC for Copy/Print Hardware Lease and Services for a 60 Month Term in the Amount of
      $267,991 (PD)
      Authorized the City Manager to negotiate and enter into an agreement with UBEO West LLC for
      copy/print hardware lease and services, in the amount of $267,991

   c. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending June
      30, 2023 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   d. Special Tax on Properties at Loch Lomond 10 - Mello-Roos District No. 1992-1
      Resolution Setting the Special Tax for Community Facilities District No. 1992-1 (Loch
      Lomond #10) for Fiscal Year 2023-24 (PW)

                                                                                          3
      Resolution 15237 - Resolution Setting the Special Tax for Community Facilities District No.
      1992-1 (Loch Lomond #10) for Fiscal Year 2023-24

   e. The Village at Loch Lomond Marina – Mello-Roos District No. 2
      Resolution Setting the Special Tax for City of San Rafael Community Facilities District No.
      2 (The Village at Loch Lomond Marina) for Fiscal Year 2023-24 (PW)
      Resolution 15238 - Resolution Setting the Special Tax for City of San Rafael Community Facilities
      District No. 2 (The Village at Loch Lomond Marina) for Fiscal Year 2023-24

   f. Accepting Grant Funds to Support Sea Level Rise Planning
      Resolution Accepting Grant Funds from the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research
      for the San Rafael Climate Adaptation Planning Collaborative, Appropriating Funds in the
      Amount of $644,201 for the Project, And Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and
      Enter into Professional Service Agreements for the Project (CM)
      Resolution 15239 - Resolution Accepting Grant Funds from the Governor’s Office of Planning
      and Research for the San Rafael Climate Adaptation Planning Collaborative, Appropriating Funds
      in the Amount of $644,201 for the Project, And Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and
      Enter into Professional Service Agreements for the Project

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
5. Public Hearings:

   a. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
      Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment
      District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and
      Collection of Assessments for FY 2023-24 (PW)

      Thomas Wong, Senior Management Analyst presented the staff report.

      Mayor Kate opened the public hearing.

      Speaker: Carolyn Lown

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15240 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint
      Lagoons Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering
      the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2023-24



                                                                                                4
b. Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
   Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road
   Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
   Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2023-24 (PW)

   Thomas Wong, Senior Management Analyst presented the staff report.

   Mayor Kate opened the public hearing.

   Speaker: Kevin Hagerty, Point San Pedro Road Coalition

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15241 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San
   Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
   Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2023-24

c. San Rafael Police Department AB 481 Military Equipment Annual Report and Renewal of
   Military Equipment Use Policy
   Resolution Renewing the Ordinance Approving San Rafael Police Department Military
   Equipment Use Policy 706 (PD)

   David Spiller, Police Chief presented the staff report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate opened the public hearing.

   Speakers: Name withheld, Name withheld, Name withheld, John Reynolds, Eva Chrysanthe,
   Salamah Locks

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15242 - Resolution Renewing the Ordinance Approving San Rafael Police Department
   Military Equipment Use Policy 706




                                                                                        5
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Ordinance Regulating Camping on Public Property
      Adoption of Ordinance 2030: An Ordinance Adding Chapter 19.50 to the San Rafael
      Municipal Code, Entitled “Camping on Public Property” to Regulate Camping on Public
      Property Within the City of San Rafael (CC)

      Chris Hess, Assistant Community Development Director presented the staff report.
      Lt. Carl Huber provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Name withheld, Jeff Chase, Name withheld, Gregory Taylor, Margaret Trezevant,
      Ritter Center, Jason Sarris, Jay Ress, East Bay Tire, Name withheld, Jessa, Name withheld,
      John Reynolds, Name withheld

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt Ordinance
      2030.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2030

      Mayor Kate called a recess at 9:52 p.m.

      Mayor Kate called the meeting back in session at 9:55 p.m.

   b. Temporary Street Closure – West End Block Party 2023
      Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for the West End
      Block Party 2023 (ED)

      Micah Hinkle, Director of Economic Development and Innovation presented the staff
      report.

      Applicants Sarah Tipple, San Rafael Business Improvement District and Adam Violante, Pint
      Size Lounge gave a presentation.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Phillip Miller, Joel O., Name withheld, Casey McCabe, Joseph Adams, Angela, Bob
      Ullrich, Diane Pollock, Michael Jobe, Jennifer Kirk, Eric V., Kenny Kast, Elizabeth Bornstein,
      Marcus, Adrienne Biggs, Jane, Cody Blocker, Susan Sharpe, Name withheld, Milton Noguiera
                                                                                             6
      Councilmembers provided comment.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.
      AYES:    Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:    Councilmembers:     None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15243 - Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for
      the West End Block Party 2023

   c. 2023 Affordable Housing Notice of Funding Availability Funding Recommendation
      Resolution Authorizing the Expenditure of $1,450,000 in Funds in Fulfilment of the
      Affordable Housing Trust Fund 2023 Notice of Funding Availability (CD)

      Alexis Captanian, Housing Programs Analyst presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Anna Holm, Bridge Housing Corporation, Cory Hiraga, Eden Housing

      Councilmembers provided comment.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15244 - Resolution Authorizing the Expenditure of $1,450,000 in Funds in Fulfilment
      of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund 2023 Notice of Funding Availability

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Hill moved and Member Bushey seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending June
      30, 2023 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Members:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Chair Kate
NOES:   Members:        None
ABSENT: Members:        Llorens Gulati



                                                                                             7
ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 11:30 p.m.

                                                      ___________________________
                                                         LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2023

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         8
