                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-12-20
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Kertz
    Absent:           Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara
    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmembers Hill and Llorens
    Gulati.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included an announcement of tonight’s last
    legislative meeting for the Council in 2021; gratitude for the resilience of the community
    throughout the year, to those who continue to follow COVID safe protocols, to the Board and
    Commission volunteers, to City Staff, and to residents; and a land acknowledgment.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Amy Likover addressed the Council expressing gratitude to City for making C and D Streets
     two-way and spoke about a recent city ride-along tour with a new City staff member.
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the Council regarding the recent death of a woman at the Service
     Support Area.
  • Kristen Vandivier, Meditation Without Borders, addressed the Council regarding meditation
     classes and other services at the Service Support Area.
  • Name withheld addressed the Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • His gratitude to the City Council, all City staff and the entire extended community for
      everything that was done to make San Rafael a better place in 2021
    • City Administrative Offices will be closed the last week of December. Fire, paramedic and
      police services will be staffed 24-7. Public Works and Sanitation District crews will be
      staffed and monitoring emergency maintenance requests, as well.
    • Tuesday, January 18th will be the first City Council meeting of 2022, as the January 3rd
      meeting is cancelled
    • Update on in-person meetings
    • Planning Commission vacancy
    • Bicycle & Pedestrian Advisory Committee youth member vacancy
    • Nominations are due for the Citizen of the Year Award

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Grace Geraghty, Eva Chrysanthe

Jim Schutz, City Manager provided comments.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on MCCMC Water Committee, San Rafael Sanitation
          Board and Central Marin Sanitation Agency meetings, as well as, the Lighted Boat
          Parade.
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on the Lighted Boat Parade, as well as, Marin Wildfire
          Prevention Authority (MWPA) and Age-Friendly San Rafael meetings.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on the Lighted Boat Parade, a Transportation Authority of Marin
          meeting, a Community Circle and the Boards & Commissions Volunteer Appreciation
          Party.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.
                                                                                         2
CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Special and Regular Meetings of
      Monday, November 15, 2021 and Regular Meeting of Monday, December 6, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15012 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Vacancies on San Rafael Boards and Commissions
      Announcement of Vacancies on the Planning Commission and the Bicycle and Pedestrian
      Advisory Committee (Youth Member) (CC)
      Received and filed

   d. Cannabis Industry Tax Oversight Committee Appointment
      Approve Appointment of Charles Friede to the Cannabis Industry Tax Oversight
      Committee to the End of February 2024 Due to the Resignation of Drew Bulfer (CC)
      Approved appointment

   e. Revised City Manager Employment Agreement
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute a Revised Employment
      Agreement Between the City and City Manager James M. Schutz (CM)
      Resolution 15013 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute a Revised
      Employment Agreement Between the City and City Manager James M. Schutz

   f. Annual Measure E TUT Oversight Committee Report
      Measure E Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee Report for Fiscal Year 2020-
      2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   g. Library Parcel Tax Annual Report
      Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee’s Annual Measure D Report (L/R)
      Accepted report

   h. Fire Station 54 & 55 – Materials Testing and Special Inspection, and Geotechnical Testing
      and Inspection Services
                                                                                            3
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
      with BSK Associates for Materials Testing and Special Inspection Services and
      Geotechnical Testing and Inspection Related to Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects - Fire
      Station 54 and 55 In the Amount of $145,744 (PW)
      Resolution 15014 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services
      Agreement with BSK Associates for Materials Testing and Special Inspection Services and
      Geotechnical Testing and Inspection Related to Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects - Fire Station
      54 and 55 In the Amount of $145,744

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Homelessness Update
      Informational Report on Status of Homelessness in San Rafael (CM)

      David Spiller, Police Chief and Marc Sabin, Homeless Program Manager presented the Staff
      Report.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Ken Shapiro, County of Marin and Gary Naja-Riese, County of Marin provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Jason Sarris, Damian Edwards, Downtown Streets Team, Kristen Vandivier,
      Meditation Without Borders, Nick Morris, The Street Chaplaincy, Karen Strolia, Downtown
      Streets Team, Eva Chrysanthe, Name Withheld

      Ken Shapiro, County of Marin provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Hill & Llorens Gulati

      Accepted Report

   b. Ministerial Review of Two-Unit Residential Developments and Urban Lot Splits Pursuant
      to Senate Bill 9 (SB 9)
      Resolution Directing Staff to Prepare an Interim Guidance Document Establishing
      Standards and Review Procedures for Ministerial Review of Two-Unit Residential
      Developments and Urban Lot Splits to Implement SB 9 - The California Home Act; And
      Directing the Preparation of an SB 9 Implementing Ordinance (CD)

                                                                                                  4
   Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Jeff Ballantine, Senior Planner
   who presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: John Reynolds, David Smith, Responsible Growth Marin, Shirley Fischer

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill & Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15015 - Resolution Directing Staff to Prepare an Interim Guidance Document
   Establishing Standards and Review Procedures for Ministerial Review of Two-Unit Residential
   Developments and Urban Lot Splits to Implement SB 9 - The California Home Act; And Directing
   the Preparation of an SB 9 Implementing Ordinance

c. Emergency Vehicle Preemption of Traffic Signals – Public Safety Initiative
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Master Sale of Goods
   and Services Agreement with Global Traffic Technologies to Provide Preemption Services
   for Police and Fire Vehicles at Signalized Intersections (PW)

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Rafat Raie, Deputy Public Works Director who
   presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Lori Shifrin, Grace Geraghty, Eva Chrysanthe

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill & Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15016 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Master
   Sale of Goods and Services Agreement with Global Traffic Technologies to Provide Preemption
   Services for Police and Fire Vehicles at Signalized Intersections

d. 2022 Vice-Mayor
   Select Vice-Mayor for the City of San Rafael 2022 (CC)

   Mayor Kate introduced this item.

                                                                                        5
      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to nominate Rachel
      Kertz to be the Vice-Mayor for 2022.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill & Llorens Gulati

      Selected Rachel Kertz as Vice-Mayor for 2022

   e. City Council Appointments to Committees
      Approve City Council Appointments to Committees 2022 (CC)

      Mayor Kate introduced this item.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the City
      Council appointments to committees as presented.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill & Llorens Gulati

      Approved Appointments

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:29 p.m.



                                                           ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             6
