                                              MINUTES


                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – TUESDAY, JULY 6, 2021


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                 CLOSED SESSION AT 6:00 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cs-2021-07-06
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 852-3461-8723#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
           Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
           Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
           Carmen Valdez, and Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-07-06
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                     ID: 817-3692-0337#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. She provided opening remarks, which included
a homelessness update and a land acknowledgement.

Mayor Kate invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll. All members of the City Council were
present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom. Also,
City Clerk Lara announced that the City is preparing a hybrid virtual public meeting model and
informed the community of the public comment modifications for City Council and Planning
Commission meetings, as of June 15th.


OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Joanne Webster, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce addressed the City Council regarding
       homeless encampments.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Mitigating fire risk and the potential need for evacuations update
    • Homeless encampments update

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:



                                                                                           2
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation Board meeting and a Canal
          Karate event at The Boro Center.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on Association of Bay Area Government (ABAG) and Marin
          Municipal Water District (MMWD) meetings.
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Homelessness and Marin Wildfire Prevention
          Authority meetings.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Canal Collaborative, East San Rafael
          Business, and Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) Climate
          Action meetings. She announced the mural at 3301 Kerner Blvd. is now up.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on Guatemalan Consulate and Common Knowledge meetings, a
          ribbon cutting event at 2nd and B Streets, Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), Gun
          Safety Collaborative, and BayWAVE meetings.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Kristen Jacobson, Youth in Arts, Morgan Schauffler, Youth in Arts, John Reynolds, Name
withheld

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      June 21, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. California State Preschool Contract
      Resolution Approving a Contract (California State Preschool Program-1283) with the
      California Department of Education to Provide Funding in the Amount of $238,821
      for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 for Child Development Services and Authorizing the City
      Manager to Execute the Contract Documents (LR)
      Resolution 14941 - Resolution Approving a Contract (California State Preschool Program-
      1283) with the California Department of Education to Provide Funding in the Amount of
      $238,821 for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 for Child Development Services and Authorizing the City
      Manager to Execute the Contract Documents

   c. San Rafael Parks and Recreation Master Plan Steering Committee
      Resolution Approving the Formation of a 15-Member Ad-Hoc Parks and Recreation
      Master Plan Steering Committee (LR)
      Resolution 14942 - Resolution Approving the Formation of a 15-Member Ad-Hoc Parks and
      Recreation Master Plan Steering Committee

   d. Special Event Street Closures in Downtown San Rafael
                                                                                          3
      Informational Report Regarding Temporary Closure of Streets in Downtown San
      Rafael for the Continuation of the Dining Under the Lights Program and the City
      COVID Outdoor Dining and Retail Program; and Resolution Authorizing the
      Temporary Closure of C Street from Fourth Street to Third Street for the Youth in Arts
      Special Event on July 23, 2021 (PW)
      Accepted report and Resolution 14943 - Informational Report Regarding Temporary Closure
      of Streets in Downtown San Rafael for the Continuation of the Dining Under the Lights
      Program and the City COVID Outdoor Dining and Retail Program; and Resolution Authorizing
      the Temporary Closure of C Street from Fourth Street to Third Street for the Youth in Arts
      Special Event on July 23, 2021

AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Designating July 2021 as Park and Recreation Month (LR)

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Susan Andrade-Wax, Library & Recreation
      Director.

      Mark Machado, Park & Recreation Commission Chair, Susan Andrade-Wax, Library &
      Recreation Director, and Catherine Quffa, Assistant Library & Recreation Director provided
      comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS

7. Public Hearings:

   a. Prohibition of Camping on Certain Public Property
      An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael, Pursuant to
      California Government Code Section 36937(B), Prohibiting Camping or Lodging at
      Any Time in Boyd Park and in City Parking Garages (CA)

      Lisa Goldfien, Assistant City Attorney presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Pat Langley, Marin Organizing Committee, David, John Reynolds, Marin
      Organizing Committee, Laurie, Jonathan Harb, Sunny Lee

      Staff responded to public comment.
                                                                                         4
      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt Urgency
      Ordinance No. 1995.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

      Adopted Urgency Ordinance No. 1995 - An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City
      of San Rafael, Pursuant to California Government Code Section 36937(B), Prohibiting
      Camping or Lodging at Any Time in Boyd Park and in City Parking Garages

   b. Proposed Library and Recreation Department Fee Update
      Resolution Approving Amendments to the City Master Fee Schedule Updating Library,
      Recreation, and Childcare Fees (LR)

      Susan Andrade-Wax, Library & Recreation Director presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Maureen, Terra Linda Community Garden

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

      Resolution 14944 - Resolution Approving Amendments to the City Master Fee Schedule
      Updating Library, Recreation, and Childcare Fees

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Highway 101 to Interstate 580 Connector Project



                                                                                         5
   Presentation of Potential Guiding Principles Representing San Rafael’s Interests in the
   Transportation Authority of Marin’s (TAM) Study of Alternative Alignments for the
   101 to 580 Connector Project (PW)

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director and Barry Miller, General Plan 2040 Consultant presented
   the Staff Report.

   Staff, including Anne Richman and Dan Cherrier from Transportation Authority of Marin
   (TAM), responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Linda Jackson, Sustainable San Rafael, Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Staff provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Accepted Report

b. New Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael Firefighters’ Association (SRFA)
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for San Rafael Firefighters’ Association (SRFA) (July 1, 2021
   Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Resolution 14945 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Firefighters’ Association (SRFA) (July 1,
   2021 Through June 30, 2024)
                                                                                        6
c. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with AFSCME/Local 1 & Furlough
   Reimbursement Side Letter
   Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for AFSCME / Local 1 (July 1, 2021 Through
   June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report. She announced that
   she would be combining the Staff Reports for Items 8.c and 8.d.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment for Items 8.c and 8.d.; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to direct staff to return
   with resolution adopting MOU.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to direct staff to return
   with resolution adopting MOU.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

d. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with Western Council of Engineers &
   Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter
   Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for Western Council of Engineers (July 1, 2021
   Through June 30, 2024) (HR)
   Recommended Action – Direct staff to return with Resolution adopting MOU

   The Staff Report for Item 8.d Successor Memorandum of Understanding with Western
   Council of Engineers & Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter was combined (and presented)
   with Item 8.c. See Item 8.c Successor Memorandum of Understanding with AFSCME/Local
   1 & Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter.

e. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
   Association



                                                                                        7
   Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association
   (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.
   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to direct staff to
   return with resolution adopting MOU.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

f. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael Police Mid-Management
   Association
   Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management
   Association (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to direct staff
   to return with resolution adopting MOU.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

g. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with SEIU Local 1021 & Furlough
   Reimbursement Side Letter
   Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 (July 1, 2021 Through
   June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.



                                                                                      8
      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to direct staff to return
      with resolution adopting MOU.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

      Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Councilmember Llorens Gulati closed the meeting in memory of Sean Castle, a music teacher at
San Rafael High School. Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:40 p.m.


                                                              ___________________________
                                                                 LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                               APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                      _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                              9
