                                                  AGENDA
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, JULY 15, 2024

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-07-15
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 860-6190-5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION– THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:40 PM
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:40 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL - ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
           Significant exposure to litigation (Paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Government Code
           Section 54956.9): 1 potential case

        b. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-EXISTING LITIGATION
           Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9: 1 case
           1. Shaleeta Boyd, et al. v. City of San Rafael, et al. (U.S. District Court, N.D. Cal., Case No.
           23-cv-04085-EMC)

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. Vice Mayor Hill and Councilmember Llorens Gulati were absent.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in closed session.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, an announcement of
the Employee of the Quarter John Olmos, San Rafael Parking Attendant, the recent loss of
community member Rich Nave, and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported on:
   • November 5, 2024 General Municipal Election Nomination Period (opened today, July 15
       and will run through August 9) to run for Office for Mayor, City Councilmember Districts 1
       & 4, City Attorney, City Clerk and San Rafael City Schools Board of Education Trustee Areas
       1, 3, & 5 - If incumbents fail to file, those seats will extend through Wednesday, August 14
   • Police Advisory and Accountability Committee meeting to be held Wednesday, July 17 at
       6pm in San Rafael City Council Chambers
   • San Rafael Police Department “Touch-a-Truck” event to be held Saturday, July 27, from
       10am to 2pm at Al Boro Community Center and Pickleweed Park
   • 41st Annual National Night Out (NNO) crime prevention event to be held Tuesday, August
       6, from 6-8pm
   • San Rafael Chamber of Commerce and Downtown Business Improvement District to host
       First Annual Dancing Under the Lights, Friday, August 9, from 5-9pm on Fourth Street, from
       A Street to Lootens Place
   • August 5 City Council meeting to be cancelled - Regular meeting to resume on August 19
   • All Things Homelessness Update scheduled for the August 19 City Council meeting

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Fire Station 57 event, a San Rafael Sanitation
          District (SRSD) meeting, a Marin County Council of Mayors & Councilmembers
          (MCCMC) meeting, a Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCO) representative
          meeting and a Central Marin Sanitation Agency (CMSA) meeting.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rapid Transit (SMART), two Transportation
          Authority of Marin (TAM) meetings, a Bay Area Climate Adaptation Network (BayCAN)
          meeting and the Marin County Fair.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Name withheld

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Consent Calendar items.

Speakers: Name withheld, Joel Eis, Name withheld
                                                                                            2
Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of June 17, 2024 and the Special
      City Council Meeting of June 21, 2024 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Amendments to Title 18 of the San Rafael Municipal Code “Protection of Flood Hazard
      Areas”
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2037: An Ordinance Amending Title 18 of the San Rafael
      Municipal Code “Protection of Flood Hazard Areas”, to Meet or Exceed the Federal
      Emergency Management Agency’s Minimum Standards for Development in Flood Hazard
      Areas (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2037

   c. Stipend Compensation Program for Boards, Commissions and Committees; And City
      Council Compensation
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2038: An Ordinance Adjusting the Compensation for the
      Mayor and City Council (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2038

   d. Planning Commission and Design Review Board Consolidation
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2039: An Ordinance Amending Title 2 – Administration
      of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Add Design Professionals to the Planning Commission
      Membership Composition, and Amend Titles 14 – Zoning, and 15 – Subdivisions of the San
      Rafael Municipal Code, to Dissolve the Design Review Board and Transfer Existing Duties
      of the Design Review Board to the Planning Commission, or Zoning Administrator, or
      Director of Community and Economic Development (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2039

   e. Planning Commission Bylaw Amendment
      Resolution Amending the Planning Commission’s Bylaws (CC)
      Resolution 15317 - Resolution Amending the Planning Commission’s Bylaws

   f. Acceptance of Grant from Marin Community Foundation
      Resolution Accepting the Grant of Funds from the Marin Community Foundation for a
      Two-Year Climate Justice and Engagement Manager and Appropriating Funds in the
      Amount of $297,960 (CM)
      Resolution 15318 - Resolution Accepting the Grant of Funds from the Marin Community
      Foundation for a Two-Year Climate Justice and Engagement Manager and Appropriating Funds
      in the Amount of $297,960

   g. West End Block Party 2024 Temporary Street Closure
      Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for the West End
      Block Party 2024 (CED)
      Resolution 15319 - Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for the
      West End Block Party 2024

                                                                                               3
h. San Rafael Public Library Foundation Donation for Constructing a New Library
   Resolution Establishing a San Rafael Public Library Foundation Donation Account (LR)
   Resolution 15320 - Resolution Establishing a San Rafael Public Library Foundation Donation
   Account

i.          Third Street Rehabilitation Project
            Accept Completion of the Third Street Rehabilitation Project, City Project No. 11315, and
            Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
            Accepted Completion and authorized the City Clerk to file the Notice of Completion

j.          Third Street Safety Improvements Project
            Accept Completion of the Third Street Safety Improvements Project, City Project No.
            11362, and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
            Accepted Completion and authorized the City Clerk to file the Notice of Completion

k. Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project
     Authorize and Award Agreements for the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project,
     Including (PW):
  i.     Construction Agreement to Bauman Landscape and Construction, Inc. and Authorize
         $7,120,000 for Project Construction
         Awarded the Construction Agreement to Bauman Landscape and Construction, Inc. in the
         amount of $6,031,641.50; And, authorized the City Manager to execute the construction
         agreement not to exceed the amount of $7,120,000 including contingency funds of
         $1,088,358.50

      ii.      Professional Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering, Inc. for
               Construction Management, Inspection, and Testing Services in the Amount Not to
               Exceed $644,575
               Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Professional Services Agreement with Coastland
               Civil Engineering, Inc. for construction management, inspection, and testing services in the
               amount not to exceed $644,575

     iii.      Second Amendment to Professional Services Agreement with Gates + Associates for
               Construction Administration Services, in an Additional Amount of $19,450, Increasing
               the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the Agreement to $565,784
               Authorized the City Manager to enter into a second amendment to the Professional Services
               Agreement with Gates + Associates for construction administration services in an additional
               amount of $19,450, increasing the total not-to-exceed amount of the agreement to
               $565,784

     iv.       Approve the Plans and Specifications for the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project,
               Deemed Reasonable by the City Engineer, for City Project No. 11376, on File in the
               Department of Public Works
               Approved the Plans and Specifications for the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project,
               deemed reasonable by the City Engineer, for City Project No. 11376, on File in the
               Department of Public Works




                                                                                                    4
   l.   Special Tax on Properties at Loch Lomond 10 - Mello-Roos District No. 1992-1
        Resolution Setting the Special Tax for Community Facilities District No. 1992-1 (Loch
        Lomond #10) for Fiscal Year 2024-25 (PW)
        Resolution 15321 - Resolution Setting the Special Tax for Community Facilities District No.
        1992-1 (Loch Lomond #10) for Fiscal Year 2024-25

   m. The Village at Loch Lomond Marina – Mello-Roos District No. 2
      Resolution Setting the Special Tax for City of San Rafael Community Facilities District No.
      2 (The Village at Loch Lomond Marina) for Fiscal Year 2024-25 (PW)
      Resolution 15322 - Resolution Setting the Special Tax for City of San Rafael Community Facilities
      District No. 2 (The Village at Loch Lomond Marina) for Fiscal Year 2024-25

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill & Llorens Gulati

PUBLIC HEARINGS
5. Public Hearings:

   a. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
      Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment
      District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and
      Collection of Assessments for FY 2024-25 (PW)

        Deputy Director of Administrative Services (Public Works) Jonathan Schellin presented the
        Staff Report.

        Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

        Mayor Kate invited public comment.

        Speaker: Michael Glasner

        Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

        Councilmembers provided comments.

        Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
        confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District and
        the Assessment Diagram connected therewith and ordering the levy and collection of
        assessments for FY 2024-25.

        AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
        NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
        ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

        Resolution 15323 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons
        Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy
        and Collection of Assessments for FY 2024-25


                                                                                                5
   b. Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
      Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road
      Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
      Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2024-25 (PW)

      Deputy Director of Administrative Services (Public Works) Jonathan Schellin presented the
      Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
      confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road Median
      Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected therewith and
      ordering the levy and collection of assessments for FY 2024-25.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill & Llorens Gulati

     Resolution 15324 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San
     Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
     Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2024-25

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Response to the Grand Jury Report on E-Bike Safety
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the Marin
      County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “With Power Comes Responsibility - Youths Under
      Age 16 Operating Class 2 E-Bikes: A Safety Risk” (PD)

      Chief of Police David Spiller presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Mahmoud Shirazi, Michael Glasner, Name withheld, Name withheld, Name
      withheld

      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.




                                                                                          6
   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
   approving and authorizing the Mayor to execute the Response to the Marin County Civil
   Grand Jury Report titled “With Power Comes Responsibility - Youths Under Age 16
   Operating Class 2 E-Bikes: A Safety Risk.”

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 15325 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to
  the Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Titled “With Power Comes Responsibility - Youths
  Under Age 16 Operating Class 2 E-Bikes: A Safety Risk”

b. Response to Grand Jury Report – Cyber Preparedness – Are We There Yet?
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the Marin
   County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled – Cyber Preparedness – Are We There Yet? (DS)

   Director of Digital Service and Open Government Sean Mooney presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Name withheld

   Staff responded to questions raised in public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
   approving and authorizing the Mayor to execute the Response to the Marin County Civil
   Grand Jury Report entitled – Cyber Preparedness – Are We There Yet?

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 15326 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to
  the Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled – Cyber Preparedness – Are We There Yet?

c. Proposed Update to Master Fee Schedule – Childcare
   Resolution Authorizing an Update to the Master Fee Schedule to Establish Childcare
   Program Rates for the 2024-25 School Year (LR)

   Finance Director Paul Navazio presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.
                                                                                       7
    Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
    authorizing an update to the Master Fee Schedule to establish childcare program rates for
    the 2024-25 school year.

    AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
    NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
    ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill & Llorens Gulati

    Resolution 15327 - Resolution Authorizing an Update to the Master Fee Schedule to Establish
    Childcare Program Rates for the 2024-25 School Year

d. Salary and Benefit Plans for Temporary Employees
     Resolutions Regarding Salary and Benefit Plans for Temporary Employees (HR)
  i.    Resolution Rescinding Resolution No. 15020 and Establishing a Salary and Benefit
        Plan for Temporary, Seasonal and Retiree Employees

  ii.      Resolution Establishing a Salary and Benefit Plan for Non-Exempt Fixed-Term
           Employees

 iii.      Resolution Establishing a Salary and Benefit Plan for Exempt Fixed-Term Employees

    City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided opening comments.

        Human Resources Director Marissa Sanchez presented the Staff Report.

    Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

    Councilmembers provided comments.

    Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
    rescinding Resolution No. 15020 and establishing a salary and benefit plan for temporary,
    seasonal and retiree employees.

    AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
    NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
    ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill & Llorens Gulati

    Resolution 15328 - Resolution Rescinding Resolution No. 15020 and Establishing a Salary and
    Benefit Plan for Temporary, Seasonal and Retiree Employees

    Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
    establishing a salary and benefit plan for non-exempt fixed-term employees.

    AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
    NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
    ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill & Llorens Gulati

    Resolution 15329 - Resolution Establishing a Salary and Benefit Plan for Non-Exempt Fixed-Term
    Employees

                                                                                           8
   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
   establishing a salary and benefit plan for exempt fixed-term employees.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 15330 - Resolution Establishing a Salary and Benefit Plan for Exempt Fixed-Term
  Employees

e. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees International
   Union, Local 1021 (SEIU Local 1021)
   Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for the Service Employees International Union,
   Local 1021 (July 1, 2024, Through June 30, 2027)

   Human Resources Director Marissa Sanchez presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
   approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding pertaining to compensation and
   working conditions for the Service Employees International Union, Local 1021 (July 1, 2024,
   Through June 30, 2027).

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 15331 - Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining
  to Compensation and Working Conditions for the Service Employees International Union, Local
  1021 (July 1, 2024, Through June 30, 2027)

f. Salary Resolution for Unrepresented Executive Management Employees
   Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for Unrepresented
   Executive Management Employees (July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027) and Authorizing
   the City Manager to Enter into Employment Agreements with the Unrepresented
   Executive Management Employees

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided opening comments.

   Human Resources Consultant Angela Nicholson presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Name withheld

   Staff responded to questions raised in public comment.

                                                                                       9
       Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
      establishing the compensation and working conditions for unrepresented executive
      management employees (July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027) and authorizing the City
      Manager to enter into employment agreements with the unrepresented executive
      management employees.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15332 - Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for
      Unrepresented Executive Management Employees (July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027) and
      Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into Employment Agreements with the Unrepresented
      Executive Management Employees

   g. Compensation For Elected City Clerk and Elected Part-Time City Attorney Compensation
      Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for the Elected City
      Clerk and Elected Part-Time City Attorney (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

      Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Pinon presented the Staff Report and noted the
      clerical error in the dates on the title of the Staff Report.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speaker: Name withheld

       Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
      establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for the Elected City Clerk and
      Elected Part-Time City Attorney (July 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027) (HR)

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill & Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15333 - Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for the
      Elected City Clerk and Elected Part-Time City Attorney (July 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027)
      (HR)

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Susan Kay Gilbert addressed the City Council regarding pedestrian safety at Vivalon crosswalk
     and expressed her appreciation to City staff for their prompt response to her emails.
  • Suzanne Becker, Captain’s Cove Homeowners Association addressed the City Council regarding
     the fire located behind the Regency Theater.
  • Victor Fridman addressed the City Council regarding the fire located behind the Regency
     Theater.
  • Peter addressed the City Council regarding an incident where someone threw a fentanyl pipe
     into his moving vehicle and other public safety concerns.

                                                                                           10
   •   Name withheld addressed the City Council regarding the fire located behind the Regency
       Theater and pedestrian safety in front of Vivalon.
   •   Name withheld addressed the City Council regarding the public comments from others and
       Gaza.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:40 p.m. in honor of Richard Nave (former councilmember)
who recently passed away.

                                                       ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         11
