                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Rob Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                               REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                     Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2021-01-19
                     Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                               Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885

        Spanish Interpretation Available on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2021-01-19

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included Martin Luther King Day and the 2021
Presidential Inauguration, a land acknowledgement and gratitude to the public and City staff
participating tonight.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would include Spanish language
simultaneous interpretation on the Spanish Zoom channel and would be streamed live to YouTube
and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through
YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation through the telephone
and on YouTube.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Correspondence in real-time through YouTube, Zoom or telephone
   • Marina Palma addressed the City Council regarding the COVID-19 vaccine
   • Jeanne and David Ross addressed the City Council regarding the proposed driveway closure
     at 3rd and Lindaro
   • Satbir Hundal addressed the City Council regarding the permanent driveway closure at 3rd
     and Lindaro Street

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Special City Council Meeting to select vacant City Council seat to be held on Tuesday,
       January 26 at 5:00 p.m.
    • COVID-19 and the City’s response updates
    • Planning Commission Meeting on the Draft Downtown Precise Plan covering the Draft Form
       Based Code to be held on Tuesday, January 26 at 7:00 p.m.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

   •   Councilmember Bushey reported on meetings with the San Rafael Sanitation Agency and
       Central Marin Sanitation Agency.
   •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on meetings with Canal Alliance and Voces Del
       Canal, Marin Organizing Committee and the Federation of San Rafael Neighborhoods.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on a Marin Transit meeting.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

                                                                                            2
Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      December 21, 2020 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2020 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   c. Library and Community Center Conceptual Design Professional Services Agreement
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional
      Services Agreement with Noll & Tam Architects in an Amount Not to Exceed $81,924,
      for a Conceptual Design for a Combined Public Library and Community Center in
      Albert Park, as an Option for a Future New Library Downtown (LR)
      Resolution 14886 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Professional Services Agreement with Noll & Tam Architects in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $81,924, for a Conceptual Design for a Combined Public Library and Community Center in
      Albert Park, as an Option for a Future New Library Downtown

AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Temporary Moratorium on Certain Rent Increases
      Urgency Ordinance Enacting a Temporary Moratorium on Rent Increases for Tenants
      Residing in Certain Residential Units and in U.S Census Tracts Most Disproportionately
      Impacted by COVID-19 and Setting Forth the Facts Constituting Such Urgency (CM)

      Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Rhea Brown, Marin Organizing Committee, Patti Breitman, Marin Organizing
      Committee, George Pegelow, Ursula Lindsay, Fair Housing Advocates of Northern California,
      Len Rifkind, Marina Palma, Voces Del Canal, Jennifer Coleman, Sara Trimble, Children for
                                                                                         3
          Change, Josh Sullivan, Legal Aid of Marin, Marta Villela Morales, Marin Organizing
          Committee, Lisa Leavitt, Marin Community Clinics, Bob Pendoley, Marin Organizing
          Committee, John Reynolds, Romeo Arrieta, Marin Association of Realtors, Linda Jackson,
          Sustainable San Rafael, Alex Khalfin, California Apartment Association, Evelyn, Omar Carrera,
          Canal Alliance, Bettye Kray, Marin Organizing Committee, Aurelia Vargas, Voces Del Canal,
          Stephanie Haffner, Legal Aid of Marin, Kate, Raphael, Tori Gomez, Children for Change,
          Judith Bloomberg, Marin Organizing Committee, Laura Giacomini, Marin Organizing
          Committee, Gail Dorph, Marin Organizing Committee, Hannah Bichkoff, Cristina Garcia,
          Marin Organizing Committee, Peter Mendoza, Marin Center for Independent Living, Doris
          Mazariegos, Name withheld, Angela Giacomini, Marin Organizing Committee, Aidan
          O’Sullivan

          Staff responded to public comment.

          Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

          Councilmembers provided comments.

          Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt
          Urgency Ordinance 1987, with the addition of the revision in Section 4 indicating, “except
          where such decrease is due to State or local orders mandating discontinuation of certain
          Housing Services”

          AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
          NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
          ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

          Adopted Urgency Ordinance 1987 – An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael
          Enacting a Temporary Moratorium on Rent Increases for Tenants Residing in Certain
          Residential Units and in U.S Census Tracts Most Disproportionately Impacted by COVID-19
          and Setting Forth the Facts Constituting Such Urgency

Meeting called to Recess

Meeting called back into Session

Lindsay Lara, City Clerk read aloud additional public comments, which are noted in the Open Time for
Public Expression section

      b. Marin Sanitary Service Rates and Fees for 2021
           Resolutions of the City Council of the City of San Rafael (CM):
         i. Amending the Master Fee Schedule Increasing the Refuse Impact Fee, to be
              Effective Retroactively to January 1, 2021




                                                                                                4
     ii.   Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary Service for Refuse and
           Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be Effective Retroactively
           to January 1, 2021

       Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager and Garth Schultz, R3 Consulting Group
       presented the staff report.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

       Marin Sanitary Service staff including, Patty Garbarino, Justin Wilcock and Jason Raleigh
       gave a presentation.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Randy Dodd

       Staff responded to public comment.

       Councilmembers provided comment.

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution

       AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
       ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

       Resolution 14887 - Amending the Master Fee Schedule Increasing the Refuse Impact Fee, to
       be Effective Retroactively to January 1, 2021

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution

       AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
       ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

       Resolution 14888 – Resolution Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary
      Service for Refuse and Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be Effective
      Retroactively to January 1, 2021

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar

1. Consent Calendar:

                                                                                           5
   a. Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2020 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   b. Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule (ROPS) for Fiscal Year 2021-22
      Acceptance of ROPS Report and Authorization to Submit to the Marin County
      Successor Agency Oversight Board and the State Department of Finance (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:     Members:     Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Chair Kate
NOES:     Members:     None
ABSENT:   Members:     None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:52 p.m.


                                                          ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                              APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             6
