                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Phillips
                      Vice Mayor Colin
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Gamblin
                      Councilmember McCullough
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Rob Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                         Watch online: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                       ID: 828-5873-3293#

    Mayor Phillips called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call
    the roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube
    and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through
    YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation through the telephone
    and on YouTube.
OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session: - None.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz provided updates on the local election and COVID-19 and the City’s
response. He also noted that City Offices, except for Emergency Services, will be closed for the
Thanksgiving week, due to both furlough and holiday days.

Mayor Phillips provided comments

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Phillips held item 4.c from the Consent Calendar

Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none

Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the
remainder of the Consent Calendar

AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      November 2, 2020 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Residential Building Resale Report (RBR) Program
      Resolution Adopting Temporary Measures for Administering the Residential Building
      Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San Rafael Municipal Code Title 12
      (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential Building Record) During
      the High Demand Real Estate Market and Covid-19 Pandemic (CD)
      Resolution 14870 - Resolution Adopting Temporary Measures for Administering the
      Residential Building Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San Rafael Municipal Code
      Title 12 (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential Building Record) During
      the High Demand Real Estate Market and Covid-19 Pandemic
                                                                                            2
c. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Assessment Annual Review
   Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual Assessment for
   the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District (ED)

   This item was held from the Consent Calendar (and heard afterwards)

   Mayor Phillips provided comments

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

   Councilmembers provided comments

   Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution

   Resolution 14876 - Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual
   Assessment for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

d. Annual Occupancy Inspections
   Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of Report from Fire Chief Regarding the
   Inspection of Certain Occupancies Required Pursuant to Sections 13146.2 and 13146.3
   of the California Health and Safety Code (FD)
   Resolution 14871 - Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of Report from Fire Chief Regarding the
   Inspection of Certain Occupancies Required Pursuant to Sections 13146.2 and 13146.3 of the
   California Health and Safety Code

e. Proposition 68 Grant Funding Opportunities
   Resolutions: 1) Resolution Approving Application(s) for Per Capita Grant Funds; 2)
   Resolution Approving the Application for the Statewide Park Development and
   Community Revitalization Program Grant Funds; and 3) Resolution Determining the
   Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project to Be Categorically Exempt from the California
   Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and Authorizing Staff to File a Notice of Exemption
   in Compliance with CEQA Guidelines (LR)
   Resolution 14872 - Resolution Approving Application(s) for Per Capita Grant Funds
   Resolution 14873 - Resolution Approving the Application for the Statewide Park Development
   and Community Revitalization Program Grant Funds
   Resolution 14874 - Resolution Determining the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project to Be
   Categorically Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and Authorizing
   Staff to File a Notice of Exemption in Compliance with CEQA Guidelines




                                                                                       3
   f. Dissolution Agreement of the Marin County Major Crimes Task Force
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign the Dissolution Agreement
      of the Marin County Major Crimes Task Force (PD)
      Resolution 14875 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign the Dissolution
      Agreement of the Marin County Major Crimes Task Force

   c. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Assessment Annual Review
      Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual Assessment for
      the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District (ED)

      This item was held from the Consent Calendar (and heard afterwards)

      Mayor Phillips provided comments

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

      Councilmembers provided comments

      Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      resolution

      Resolution 14876 - Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual
      Assessment for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District

      AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
      NOES:      Councilmembers:     None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations:

   a. Essential Facilities Projects Commemoration Video (PW)

      Jim Schutz, City Manager and Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided comments and
      introduced the video

      Councilmembers provided comments

      Jim Schutz, City Manager provided comments

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Year-End Financial Statements and Related Audit Reports
                                                                                         4
   Fiscal Year 2019-2020 Annual Financial Report; Gann Appropriations Limit;
   Memorandum on Internal Control; Report of Required Communications; Child
   Development Program Financial Report; and the Transportation Development Act
   Financial Report (Fin)

   Nadine Hade, Finance Director and Amy Meyer, Maze & Associates presented the staff
   report

   Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

   Councilmember Gamblin moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the
   reports

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

   Accepted reports

b. Cannabis Program Adjustments
   Resolution Amending and Renaming the “Cannabis Business Operator License Pilot
   Program” As the “Cannabis Business Operator License Program”, and Restating It in
   Its Entirety (ED)

   Danielle O’Leary, Director of Economic Development and Innovation presented the staff
   report
   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Speakers: Nurit Raphael, Founder of Ona Life, a San Francisco Cannabis Concierge

   Staff responded to further questions from Councilmembers

   Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the
   resolution

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

   Resolution 14877 - Resolution Amending and Renaming the “Cannabis Business Operator
   License Pilot Program” As the “Cannabis Business Operator License Program”, and Restating
   It in Its Entirety
                                                                                      5
   c. City's Response to Grand Jury Report on Adapting to Climate Change
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael’s
      Response to the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled, “Climate
      Change: How Will Marin Adapt?” (CM)

      Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager presented the staff report

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment

      Speakers: Bill Carney, Pamela Reaves

      Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the
      resolution

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Resolution 14878 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of
      San Rafael’s Response to the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled,
      “Climate Change: How Will Marin Adapt?”

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
7. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Mayor Phillips provided an update on the annual review of the City Manager and
          proposed a future special meeting to conclude the review

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

Mayor Phillips adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.


                                                            ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                               APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2020

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor
                                                                                             6
