                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL –MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-02-07
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: None

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll.
All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgement, gratitude to City
Staff, Chinese New Year and Black History Month.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment either
on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation on the
telephone or through Zoom.

   OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
     • Lori Schifrin, addressed the City Council regarding statistics requested on the Third Street
        Corridor at the January 18, 2022 Council Meeting.

   CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
   3. City Manager’s Report:

   Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
      • Potential upcoming strike with Golden Gate Transit Union Local ATU 1575
      • Community Conversation events update

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
   (including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
   4. Councilmember Reports:

         •   Councilmember Kertz reported on MCCMC Homeless Committee, Terra Linda
             Homeowners’ Association, Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority and Mont Marin
             Neighborhood meetings.
         •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Loch Lomond Oversight Committee and San Rafael
             Sanitation meetings. She announced her upcoming District 3 Community Conversation
             on February 9, at 5:30 p.m.
         •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Climate Action Plan Forum, East San Rafael
             Parking Task Force, Canal Neighborhood Community-Based Transportation Plan, and
             MCCMC Climate Action Committee meetings.
         •   Councilmember Hill reported on a City/School Liaison Committee meeting.
         •   Mayor Kate reported on SMART, Marin Economic Recovery Committee, Gun Safety
             Collaborative, BayWAVE, Transportation Authority of Marin and Marin Transit
             meetings.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   CONSENT CALENDAR:
   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Name Withheld

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
   Calendar.

   5. Consent Calendar Items:

      a. Approval of Minutes
         Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Tuesday, January
         18, 2022 (CC)
         Approved minutes as submitted

                                                                                            2
b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
   Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
   Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
   and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
   the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
   Resolution 15023 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
   the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
   Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
   the COVID-19 Pandemic

c. Fire Station 54 & 55 - Inspection of Record Services
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
   with 4LEAF, Inc. for Inspection of Record Services Related to Phase 2 Essential Facilities
   Projects - Fire Station 54 and 55 In the Amount of $126,100 (PW)
   Resolution 15024 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services
   Agreement with 4LEAF, Inc. for Inspection of Record Services Related to Phase 2 Essential
   Facilities Projects - Fire Station 54 and 55 In the Amount of $126,100

d. FY 2021-22 Vehicle Replacement
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Five (5) Patrol Cars for the Police
   Department and Two (2) Parking Enforcement Vehicles for the Parking Services
   Department in a Total Amount Not to Exceed $476,805 (PW)
   Resolution 15025 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Five (5) Patrol Cars for
   the Police Department and Two (2) Parking Enforcement Vehicles for the Parking Services
   Department in a Total Amount Not to Exceed $476,805

e. PG&E Easement Required for Fire Station 54
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Grant of Easement Deed for Public
   Utility Purposes to Pacific Gas and Electric Company for the City’s Fire Station 54 Project
   (PW)
   Resolution 15026 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Grant of Easement
   Deed for Public Utility Purposes to Pacific Gas and Electric Company for the City’s Fire Station
   54 Project

f. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Improvements at Albert Park Ball Field
   Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Construction
   Agreement for Installation of a Prefabricated Restroom Building and Access Ramp at Albert
   Park Ball Field, City Project No. 11372, to McNabb Construction Inc. in the Amount of
   $184,884, and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of $20,116, For a Total
   Appropriated Amount of $205,000 (PW)
   Resolution 15027 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
   Construction Agreement for Installation of a Prefabricated Restroom Building and Access Ramp
   at Albert Park Ball Field, City Project No. 11372, to McNabb Construction Inc. in the Amount of
   $184,884, and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of $20,116, For a Total
   Appropriated Amount of $205,000

g. Francisco Boulevard East Resurfacing Project
   Accept Completion of the Francisco Boulevard East Resurfacing Project (City Project No.
   11389), and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
   Accepted Completion and authorized City Clerk to file Notice of Completion

                                                                                            3
   h. Temporary Street Closure to Support Voces Del Canal
      Resolution Authorizing Alto Street Closure on February 26, 2022 to Support Voces Del
      Canal to Host an Outdoor Photography Exhibit (PW)
      Resolution 15028 - Resolution Authorizing Alto Street Closure on February 26, 2022 to Support
      Voces Del Canal to Host an Outdoor Photography Exhibit

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Black History Month (HR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. The Neighborhood at Los Gamos, a Proposed Mixed-Use Project Consisting of Residential
      and Commercial Land Uses on the Property at the Southerly Terminus of Los Gamos Drive
      North of Oleander Drive; Christopher Hart, Applicant and Property Owner
      Adopt Resolutions and Pass Ordinance to Print Related to The Neighborhood at Los Gamos
      Proposed Mixed-Use Project (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Sean Kennings, Project
      Planner who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Applicant Team gave a presentation.

      Applicant Team and Staff responded to questions from the Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Michael McLennan, David Moller, Marin/Sonoma Building Electrification Squad,
      Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Linda Jackson, Sustainable San Rafael, Linda
      Haumann, Marin Organizing Committee, Jeff Bialik, Housing Crisis Action Marin Steering
      Committee, Cece Osborn, Andrew Ward, Marin YMCA, Bob Pendoley, Marin Environmental
      Housing Collaborative (MEHC), Brian Dempsey, Mike Pelfini, San Rafael Chamber of
      Commerce, Steve Harris, Carpenters Local #35, Becky Rosales, Miller Creek School District,
      Marcy, John Reynolds, Sunny Lee

      Applicant Team and Staff responded to public comment.

                                                                                            4
Councilmembers provided comments.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
resolution.

i.   Resolution Adopting an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration and Approving a
     Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (IS20-004);

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

Resolution 15029 - Resolution Adopting an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration and
Approving a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (IS20-004)

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
resolution.

ii. Resolution Approving a General Plan Amendment (GPA 20-001) from Hillside Resource
    Residential to Neighborhood Commercial Mixed Use;

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

Resolution 15030 - Resolution Approving a General Plan Amendment (GPA 20-001) from Hillside
Resource Residential to Neighborhood Commercial Mixed Use

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass
Ordinance No. 2003 to print.

iii. Ordinance Approving a Zone Change (ZC 20-002) from Planned District - Hillside
     Development Overlay District (PD-H) and Residential – Hillside Development Overlay
     District (R2A-H) to Planned Development District (PD);

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

Passed to print Ordinance No. 2003 Approving a Zone Change (ZC 20-002) from Planned District
- Hillside Development Overlay District (PD-H) and Residential – Hillside Development Overlay
District (R2A-H) to Planned Development District (PD)

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
resolution.

iv. Resolution Approving Environmental and Design Review (ED-20-058) and a Vesting
    Tentative Parcel Map (TS20-002)




                                                                                      5
      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Resolution 15031 - Resolution Approving Environmental and Design Review (ED-20-058) and a
      Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (TS20-002)

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Third Street Rehabilitation Project
      Adopt Resolutions Related to the Third Street Rehabilitation Project, City Project No.
      11315 (PW)

      Councilmember Hill recused himself from this item and left the meeting at 9:12 p.m.

      City Attorney Rob Epstein provided comments.

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced April Miller, Assistant Public Works Director
      who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Amy Likover, Federation of San Rafael Neighborhoods, Wendi Kallins, Safe
      Routes to Schools, Name Withheld, Arlin Benavidas, Sustainable San Rafael, Bill Carney,
      Sustainable San Rafael, Name Withheld, Judy Schreibman, Marin Group Sierra Club, Warren
      Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Maren DeGraff, John Reynolds, Eric Schmitt, Charles
      Pierce, Cece Osborn, Victoria DeWitt, Annika Osborn, Jean Severinghaus, Sunny Lee

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Staff provided comments.

      Councilmembers provided further comments.

      Staff responded to further questions from the Councilmembers.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

      i.   Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Construction
           Agreement for Third Street Rehabilitation Project to Ghilotti Bros, Inc., in the Amount
           of $18,248,707.54 and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of $2,551,292.46
           for a Total Appropriated Amount of $20,800,000;

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Hill
                                                                                            6
Resolution 15032 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the
Construction Agreement for Third Street Rehabilitation Project to Ghilotti Bros, Inc., in the
Amount of $18,248,707.54 and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of
$2,551,292.46 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $20,800,000

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

ii. Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to
    the Professional Services Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group, Inc.
    for Engineering Construction Support Services Associated with Third Street
    Rehabilitation Project, in the Amount of $117,000 for a New Total Professional Services
    Agreement of $1,042,782;

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

Resolution 15033 - Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to
the Professional Services Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group, Inc. for
Engineering Construction Support Services Associated with Third Street Rehabilitation Project, in
the Amount of $117,000 for a New Total Professional Services Agreement of $1,042,782

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
resolution.

iii. Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Reimbursement
     Agreement with the San Rafael Sanitation District for Bid Schedule B of the Construction
     Contract, Construction Management, and Material Testing Services for the Third Street
     Rehabilitation Project;

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

Resolution 15034 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
Reimbursement Agreement with the San Rafael Sanitation District for Bid Schedule B of the
Construction Contract, Construction Management, and Material Testing Services for the Third
Street Rehabilitation Project

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
resolution.

iv. Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Reimbursement
    Agreement with the Marin Municipal Water District for Bid Schedule C of the
    Construction Contract and Construction Management for the Third Street Rehabilitation
    Project

AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Hill

                                                                                          7
      Resolution 15035 – Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Reimbursement Agreement with the Marin Municipal Water District for Bid Schedule C of the
      Construction Contract and Construction Management for the Third Street Rehabilitation Project

      Councilmember Hill rejoined the meeting at 10:34 p.m.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:34 p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                    _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                            8
