                                                  Minutes
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2023

                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                              In-Person:
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                       Participate Virtually:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2023-02-06
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 860-6190-5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: US: +16694449171,,86061905675#

                            CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held in-
person, virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms.
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees.
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:
  • Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
      city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
  • Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
  • Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and press *9 to raise your hand, and *6
      to unmute yourself, then provide verbal public comment.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
 Present:       Councilmember Bushey
                Councilmember Hill
                Councilmember Kertz
                Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati
                Mayor Kate
 Absent:        None
 Also Present: City Manager Jim Schutz
                City Attorney Rob Epstein
                City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.
CLOSED SESSION
2. None.

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City staff, gun safety and
noting the 5th Annual National Gun Violence Survivors Week and a land acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be
recorded and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would
provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for
community participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Damien Oyobio, expressed gratitude and appreciation to the City for the Arbor Park
     community-led project for social justice work.
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the City Council regarding the recent use of force incident by
     San Rafael Police Officers in the Canal neighborhood.
  • Amy Likover, The San Rafael Tree Group, addressed the City Council regarding a Street
     Tree Ordinance relating to the General Plan 2040.
  • Barry Taranto, addressed the City Council regarding the misbehavior of some Police
     Officers and expressed appreciation for Councilmember Kertz for getting involved with
     recent antisemitic behavior.
  • Richard Olive, addressed the City Council regarding recent San Rafael Police activity,
     including dropping off a person experiencing homelessness in San Francisco and the use
     of force incident in the Canal neighborhood.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced/reported:
   • City Council Study Session on interim housing held on January 30th
   • City Council Retreat focused on teamwork held on February 2nd. It particularly focused on
      councilmembers representing districts and working together across districts.
   • New transportation funding update

Councilmember reports:
   • Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati reported on Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP), Sea Level Rise
      Subcommittee, 400 Canal Street landlord and BayWAVE Executive Steering Committee
      meetings. She attended the dedication of B Street Station.
   • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Pt. San Pedro Road Coalition Loch Lomond
      Development Oversight Committee meeting, a San Rafael Sanitation District retreat and a
      Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) Marin Transit District
      meeting.
   • Councilmember Kertz reported on the Police Department Award Ceremony, the
      Northgate Open House, and the Kaiser Permanente briefing. She announced the Age-
      Friendly San Rafael Celebration to be held on February 19th, 3–4:30 p.m. at the San Rafael
      Community Center.

                                                                                            2
   •   Councilmember Hill reported on a Downtown Business Improvement District (BID)
       meeting and the Lunar New Year Celebration at the San Rafael Community Center.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on Marin Gun Safety Collaborative, Bay Adapt Local Electeds
       Regional Task Force, and SMART meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the City Council Regular Meeting of January 17, 2023 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15186 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic

   c. Award of Public Works Contracts
      Adoption of Ordinance 2025: An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council
      Amending Chapter 11.50 of Title 11 of the San Rafael Municipal Code, Titled Public
      Works Contract Policy (CC)
      Final adoption of Ordinance 2025

   d. 2021 Affordable Housing NOFA Funding Recommendation - Canal Alliance Alternative
      Site Acquisition
      Resolution Amending Resolution 15041 by Authorizing the Expenditure of Funds for
      Acquisition of an Alternative Site at 105 Canal Street, in Fulfillment of the Affordable
      Housing Trust Fund 2021 Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) (CD)
      Resolution 15187 - Resolution Amending Resolution 15041 by Authorizing the Expenditure of
      Funds for Acquisition of an Alternative Site at 105 Canal Street, in Fulfillment of the Affordable
      Housing Trust Fund 2021 Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA)

   e. Creek Maintenance Agreement for Marin County Flood Control Zone No. 6
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into the Creek Maintenance
      Agreement for the Five-Year Maintenance of Drainage Channels Within the City of San
      Rafael and Flood Control Zone No. 6 of the Marin County Flood and Water Conservation
      District (CD)
                                                                                                 3
      Resolution 15188 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into the Creek
      Maintenance Agreement for the Five-Year Maintenance of Drainage Channels Within the City
      of San Rafael and Flood Control Zone No. 6 of the Marin County Flood and Water Conservation
      District

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentation:

   Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Special Presentation.

   Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Black History Month (HR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      David Spiller, Police Chief, accepted the proclamation on behalf of the City and provided
      comments.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Interim Financial Update and Budget Amendments to Reflect Operational Activity; Mid-
         Year Personnel Changes
      i.    Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Interim Financial Update
     ii.    Resolution Adopting Amendments to the 2022-2023 Budget and Approving Mid-Year
            Personnel Changes (Fin)

      Shawn Plate, Principal Accountant presented the Staff Report

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      resolution

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15189 - Resolution Adopting Amendments to the 2022-2023 Budget and
      Approving Mid-Year Personnel Changes
                                                                                          4
       b. B Street Two-Way Conversion
          Informational Report on the Conversion of B Street to Two-Way from Fifth Avenue to
          Second Street (PW)

          April Miller, Public Works Director commended on the project and introduced Nhat Phan,
          Traffic Engineer who presented the Staff Report.

          Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

          Mayor Kate invited public comment.

          Speakers: Phil Mooney, Frank Lindh, Susan, Name withheld, Barry Taranto, Warren Wells,
          Marin County Bicycle Coalition.

          Staff responded to public comment.

          Councilmembers provided comments.

          Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.

          AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
          NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
          ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

          Accepted report

    SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
    1. Consent Calendar: None.

    ADJOURNMENT:
    Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:46 p.m.



                                                              ___________________________
                                                               LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                               APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2023

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor
.




                                                                                             5
