In the Council Chambers of the City of San Rafael, Monday, December 16, 2019




Regular Meeting
San Rafael City Council                      Minutes

Present:         Mayor Phillips
                 Councilmember McCullough
                 Councilmember Bushey
                 Councilmember Colin
                 Councilmember Gamblin

Absent:          None

Also Present:    City Manager Jim Schutz
                 City Attorney Robert Epstein
                 City Clerk Lindsay Lara
How to Participate in Your City Council Meeting

Mayor Phillips called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.

OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, CITY HALL
1.  None.

CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, CITY HALL
2.  Closed Session: - None.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
  • Gabriel Spellberg, Legal Aid of Marin, addressed the City Council regarding the Marina
     Gardens apartment complex
  • Edwin Orellana addressed the City Council regarding the Marina Gardens apartment
     complex
  • Deysy Reyes address the City Council regarding the Marina Gardens apartment
     complex
  • Salamah Locks, Marin Commission on Aging, announced upcoming events
         o January 2, 2020 - 2020 priorities discussion with Senator Mike McGuire, at B
             Street Community Center at 10 a.m.
         o February 3, 2020 - Age-Friendly San Rafael special presentation at the San
             Rafael City Council meeting at 7 p.m.
         o February 9, 2020 - Age-Friendly San Rafael event
         o Also, Salamah Locks thanked Public Works for the markings at the Post Office
  • Mayor Phillips requested the City contact Legal Aid of Marin regarding Marina Gardens
  • Cindy Salvesen addressed the City Council regarding Drag Queen StoryTime at the
     Library


                                                                                Page 1 of 7
CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3.   City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced the evening as the final City Council meeting of the year
and the decade, and expressed thanks to the City Council and commented on 2019 highlights,
such as multiple ribbon cuttings for the two new fire stations, the SMART Larkspur extension
and quiet zone, playgrounds and capital projects such as the Grand Avenue Bridge, housing
units approved and under construction, including hotel rooms and assisted living facilities - and
all of the many hours that the City Council spent on various subcommittees, such as renter
regulations, homelessness, cannabis, SMART, economic development, finance, essential
facilities, etc.

He noted the January 6, 2020 City Council meeting would likely be cancelled, and City Hall
would be closed from December 24, 2019 - January 1, 2020; however, the libraries, community
centers and childcare would have different hours from City Hall and their schedules can be
found online. Public safety centers, first responders and emergency response remain in
operation.

Mayor Phillips provided comments and expressed thanks to the City and the City Manager Jim
Schutz for his leadership

CONSENT CALENDAR:
4.  Consent Calendar Items:

Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none.

Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Colin seconded to approve Consent
Calendar Items:

a.    Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      December 2, 2019 (CC)
      Regular Minutes 2019-12-02

       Approved minutes as submitted

b.    Annual Measure E TUT Oversight Committee Report
      Accept Measure E Transactions and Use Tax (TUT) Oversight Committee Report
      for Fiscal Year 2018-2019 (Fin)
       Annual Measure E TUT Oversight Committee Report

       Accepted report

c.    Special Library Parcel Tax Report FY2018-2019
      Accept Special Library Parcel Tax Committee's Annual Measure D Report (LR)
      Special Library Parcel Tax Report FY2018-2019

       Accepted report


                                                                                      Page 2 of 7
d.   Rotary Manor Drainage
     Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
     Professional Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering, Inc. for
     Engineering Design and Environmental Clearance Services Associated with the
     Rotary Manor Drainage Improvements Project in an Amount Not to Exceed
     $163,526 (PW)
      Rotary Manor Drainage

      Resolution 14749 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Professional Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering, Inc. for Engineering
      Design and Environmental Clearance Services Associated with the Rotary Manor
      Drainage Improvements Project in an Amount Not to Exceed $163,526

e.   Land Exchange Between the City of San Rafael and the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail
     Transit District (SMART)
     Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Property
     Exchange Agreement Between the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District
     (SMART) and the City of San Rafael, and a Quitclaim Deed of City Property to
     SMART, and to Accept the Quitclaim Deed of SMART Property on Behalf of the
     City of San Rafael (PW)
      Land Exchange Between the City of San Rafael and SMART

      Resolution 14750 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Property Exchange Agreement Between the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District
      (SMART) and the City of San Rafael, and a Quitclaim Deed of City Property to SMART,
      and to Accept the Quitclaim Deed of SMART Property on Behalf of the City of San
      Rafael

AYES:        Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
NOES:        Councilmembers: None
ABSENT:      Councilmembers: None

PUBLIC HEARINGS
5.   Public Hearings:

a.   Marin Sanitary Service Rates for 2020
     Resolution Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary Service for
     Refuse and Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be Effective
     January 1, 2020 (CM)
      Marin Sanitary Service Rates for 2020

      Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager, presented the staff report along with Garth
      Schultz, R3 Consulting Group, Inc.

      Staff and consultants responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Phillips declared the public hearing opened

      Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Patty Garbarino, Marin Sanitary Service


                                                                                   Page 3 of 7
     There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
     hearing

     Councilmembers provided comments and expressed thanks to Marin Sanitary Service
     and staff

     Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the
     Resolution

     Resolution 14751 - Resolution Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary
     Service for Refuse and Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be
     Effective January 1, 2020

     AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers: None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

b.   Dominican Sisters Lourdes Convent - Transitional Housing Use
     Resolution Approving a Use Permit Amendment (UP19-039) to Permit the
     Continued Use of the "Yellow Hallway" Area of the Lourdes Convent as a Single
     Residential Unit for Transitional Housing in Perpetuity at 77 Locust Avenue (APN
     015-112-23) (CD)
      Dominican Sisters Lourdes Convent - Transitional Housing Use

     Community Development Director Paul Jensen presented the staff report

     Staff responded to questions from the City Council and provided comments

     Mayor Phillips declared the public hearing opened

     Speakers: Chris Dolan

     There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
     hearing

     Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     Resolution subject to the following revision:

            4. This Use Permit Amendment shall allow the existing transitional housing use
            of the “yellow hallway” area to continue as long as such use is consistent with the
            terms and conditions of this permit and Use Permit UP79-18. In the event the
            property owner determines to cease such use in this area or ceases to operate
            the premises as a convent, written notice shall be provided to the City. Should
            the property owner decide to convert the yellow hallway area to a use other than
            for residential convent rooms, a zoning determination shall be requested with the
            City to determine the appropriate permit requirements.

     Resolution 14752 - Resolution Approving a Use Permit Amendment (UP19-039) to
     Permit the Continued Use of the “Yellow Hallway” Area of the Lourdes Convent as a
     Single Residential Unit for Transitional Housing in Perpetuity at 77 Locust Avenue (APN
     015-112-23)

                                                                                    Page 4 of 7
       AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:         Councilmembers: None
       ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

c.    Changing Speed Limits on Three Streets in San Rafael
      Consideration of an Ordinance of the City of San Rafael Regarding Speed Limit
      Change on Francisco Boulevard West, Woodland Avenue, and Du Bois Street
      Pursuant to Section 22357 of the California Vehicle Code (PW)
      Changing Speed Limits on Three Streets in San Rafael

       Public Works Director Bill Guerin commented on the item and introduced Traffic
       Engineer Lauren Davini who presented the report

       Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

       Mayor Phillips declared the public hearing opened; however, there were no comments
       and Mayor Phillips closed the public hearing

       Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to pass
       Charter Ordinance No. 1978 to print

       Passed Ordinance 1978 to print

       AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:         Councilmembers: None
       ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

       The City Council recommended staff return to a future meeting with an analysis of the
       impacts caused by the speed limit increases

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6.  Other Agenda Items:

a.    Public Safety Bargaining Unit Side Letters Extending Current Memorandums of
      Understanding (MOU) (HR)
     i.   Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Fire Chief
          Officers’ Association

     ii.    Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Firefighters’
            Association, I.A.F.F. Local 1775

     iii.   Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Police
            Association

     iv.  Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Police Mid-
          Management Association
       Public Safety Bargaining Unit Side Letters Extending Current MOU



                                                                                  Page 5 of 7
     City Manager Jim Schutz introduced Human Resources Director Shibani Nag who
     presented the staff report

     Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

     Councilmembers provided comments

     Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     Resolution

     Resolution 14753 - Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Fire
     Chief Officers’ Association

     AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers: None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

     Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     Resolution

     Resolution 14754 - Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael
     Firefighters’ Association, I.A.F.F. Local 1775

     AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers: None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

     Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     Resolution

     Resolution 14755 - Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Police
     Association

     AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers: None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

     Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     Resolution

     Resolution 14756 - Resolution Approving Side Letter Agreement with San Rafael Police
     Mid-Management Association

     AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
     NOES:         Councilmembers: None
     ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

b.   2020 Vice-Mayor
     Select Vice-Mayor for the City of San Rafael 2020 (CC)
      2020 Vice-Mayor


                                                                               Page 6 of 7
       Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to select
       Kate Colin as Vice-Mayor for 2020

       Selected Vice-Mayor for 2020

       AYES:          Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:          Councilmembers: None
       ABSENT:        Councilmembers: None

       Mayor Phillips expressed thanks to Vice Mayor McCullough

c.    2020 City Council Appointments
      Approve City Council Appointments to Committees 2020 (CC)
       2020 City Council Appointments

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment; however, there was none

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Colin seconded to approve the
       2020 City Council appointments

       Approved Appointments

       AYES:          Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:          Councilmembers: None
       ABSENT:        Councilmembers: None

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
7.  Councilmember Reports:
    None

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY
1.   Consent Calendar: -None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Phillips adjourned the meeting at 8:17 p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                               LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                        APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2020


                                                    __________________________________
                                                           GARY O. PHILLIPS, Mayor




                                                                                 Page 7 of 7
