                                                 MINUTES

                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2025

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-2
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 860-6190-5675#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll.

    Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara announced that no reportable action was
    taken in Closed Session following the last City Council meeting, or during the Closed Session held
    earlier this evening.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, the recent gun
    violence at Brown University and an antisemitic attack in Australia, Boards, Committees and
    Commissions volunteer recognition, residents who regularly attend our City Council Meetings
    recognition (in particular Sherna, Al and Shinji) and a land acknowledgment.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
    and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
    comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

    CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
1. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • 350 Merrydale Update
              Community Meeting held Tuesday, December 9
              Next Community Meeting to be held Wednesday, January 14, 6 p.m.
       • 2026 Public Service Award nominations are open
       • Giant Menorah Lighting & Gelt Drop to be held Sunday, December 21, Downtown City
         Plaza, 5 p.m.
       • Free parking in downtown parking garages through December 31
       • City Hall to be closed Monday, December 22 through Friday, January 2 - Recreation
         Centers to be closed Saturday, January 3 and Sunday, January 4 – All public safety is
         24/7
       • Upcoming Public Meetings
              Planning Commission to be held Tuesday, January 13, Chambers, 7 p.m.
              City Council Monday, January 5 meeting to be cancelled
                    • Next City Council meeting to be held Tuesday, January 20, Chambers, 6
                        p.m.
              Finance Subcommittee to be held Monday, January 20, Third Floor Conference
                 Room, 10 a.m.
       • Major Accomplishments of the City in 2025 Recognition

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on the Arbor Day Celebration in Peacock Gap Park, an
          Economic Development Subcommittee meeting, a Central Marin Sanitation Agency
          board meeting, the Marin Transit Board General Manager interviews, the Marin
          Symphony concert at St. Raphael’s, and the Lighted Boat Parade.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on the Lighted Boat Parade, a San Rafael Federation
          leadership team meeting, a City Schools meeting, and the Marin Society of Artists
          opening exhibit of Family Circle.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a Finance Subcommittee meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Kings Tides Day, a Sea Level Rise
          Subcommittee meeting, a Spinnaker Point community meeting, the (City) Employee
          Holiday Luncheon, Marin Transit and the 4th (Downtown) Elf Hunt.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a Climate Mayors Group (through the U.S. Conference of
          Mayors), a Transportation Authority of Marin meeting, and an East San Rafael Working
          Group meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Sherna Deamer, Wayne Rayburn, Gregory Andrew, Frank Mason

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Name Withheld

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.
                                                                                        2
AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

2. Consent Calendar Items:
   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of December 1, 2025 (CC)
      Approved Minutes as submitted

   b. Audio-Video Systems Upgrades for the Public Safety Center Emergency Operations Center
      Resolution Waiving Bidding Requirements for Services and Authorizing the City Manager
      to Enter into an Agreement with MarinIT, Inc. for Audio-Video Systems Upgrades at the
      Public Safety Center Emergency Operations Center, with a Total Amount Not to Exceed
      $181,894 (DS)
      Adopted Resolution 15485

   c. Fixed Allotment Funding to Replace the San Rafael Police Department’s 9-1-1 Call
      Processing Equipment
      Resolution Authorizing the Use of Funding in an Amount Not to Exceed $490,000 from the
      California State Office of Emergency Services 9-1-1 Communications Branch and to
      Authorize the City Manager to Execute the Scope of Work Agreement with AT&T to
      Replace the San Rafael Police Department’s On-Premise 9-1-1 Call Processing Equipment,
      Under the Terms and Conditions of the Existing Master Purchase Agreement with AT&T
      (PD)
      Adopted Resolution 15486

   d. Annual Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Upgrade for Fiscal Year 2025-26
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with Miovision
      Technologies Incorporated for the Purchase of Eight Traffic Detection and Monitoring
      Cameras and Associated Software Licensing in the Amount Not to Exceed $129, 332 (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15487

   e. Annual CalRecycle Grant
      Resolution Authorizing Submittal of an Application for all CalRecycle Grants for Which the
      City of San Rafael is Eligible (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15488

   f. Lincoln Avenue Corridor Safety Improvements at Wilson Court and Brookdale Avenue
      Project
      Resolution Approving the Plans and Specifications for the Lincoln Ave Corridor Safety
      Improvements at Wilson Ct and Brookdale Ave Project, City Project No. 11453 (“Project”);
      Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute the Construction Agreement with
      Altor Construction LLC (“Altor”) in the Amount of $284,480 and Authorizing the City
      Manager to Amend the Contract Amount Using Contingency Funds of $42,720 for a Total
      Not-to-Exceed Amount of $327,200; and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Professional Services Agreement with Bennett Engineering Services for
      Additional Construction Support Services for the Project, in the Amount Not to Exceed
      $36,500, Increasing the Total Not-to-Exceed Amount Under the Agreement to $111,330;
      CEQA Determination Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15301 (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15489
                                                                                         3
   g. Medi-Cal Transportation Intergovernmental Transfer Program for Calendar Year 2026
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Certification Form for the San Rafael
      Fire Department to Participate in an Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) with the California
      Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) for Reimbursement of Public Provider Ground
      Emergency Medical Transportation (PP-GEMT) Services for the Service Period of January
      1, 2026, Through December 31, 2026, and Transfers to DHCS Not to Exceed $946,000
      (FD)
      Adopted Resolution 15490

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
3. Public Hearings:

   a. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Assessment Annual Renewal
      Resolution Confirming the 2025 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael Business
      Improvement District and Levy of Assessments for Calendar Year 2026; Approving the
      Budget for the Assessments for Calendar Year 2026, and Appropriating Revenue Derived
      from Said Assessments (CED)

      Senior Management Analyst Stacey Laumann presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Sarah Tipple, San Rafael Business Improvement District Director, Karen (Strolia),
      San Rafael Chamber of Commerce President & CEO

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to Adopt the Resolution
      Confirming the 2025 Annual Report for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement
      District and Levy of Assessments for Calendar Year 2026; Approving the Budget for the
      Assessments for Calendar Year 2026, and Appropriating Revenue Derived from Said
      Assessments.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Adopted Resolution 15491

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
4. Other Agenda Items

   a. San Rafael Chamber of Commerce Agreement
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and Execute a One-Year Agreement
      with the San Rafael Chamber of Commerce for a Total Amount Not to Exceed $140,000
      (CM)

      Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Piñon presented the Staff Report.
      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

                                                                                          4
   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Name Withheld

   Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.
   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to Adopt the
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and Execute a One-Year Agreement
   with the San Rafael Chamber of Commerce for a Total Amount Not to Exceed $140,000.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   Adopted Resolution 15492

b. Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District Advisory Board Appointments
   Resolution Appointing Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory Board
   Members (CED)

   Senior Management Analyst Stacey Laumann presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Gregory Andrew

   Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to Adopt the Resolution
   Appointing Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory Board Members.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   Adopted Resolution 15493

c. Vice Mayor Election and City Council Appointments to Committees for 2026
   Elect the Vice Mayor for 2026 and Approve City Council Appointments to Committees and
   Representation for 2026 (CC)

   City Clerk Lindsay Lara presented the Staff Report.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Gregory Andrew
                                                                                      5
      Staff and Councilmember Kertz responded to questions raised during public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to Elect Rachel
      Kertz as the Vice Mayor for 2026 and Approve City Council Appointments to Committees
      and Representation for 2026 with the Amendment that Eli Hill be Appointed as Alternate
      to Marin Clean Energy (MCE) and Rachel Kertz be appointed to MCCMC’s Homeless Policy
      Steering Committee.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Elected Rachel Kertz as Vice Mayor and Approved City Council Appointments to Committees for
      2026

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
 o Ken Dickinson addressed the City Council regarding SB 707 and Open Time for Public
   Expression placement on the Agenda.
 o Marianne Nannestad addressed the City Council regarding SAFE Team funding.
 o Gregory Andrew addressed the City Council regarding the City Council using laptops during
   public comment.

Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 7:22 p.m.
                                                              __________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2026

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             6
