                                                MINUTES
                       SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MAY 18, 2020

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                                     Telephone: (669) 900-9128,
                                         ID: 857-6072-3570

                            CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person meeting
location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted according
to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for any interrupted
service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments to the City Clerk
prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments, please visit our Live
Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Contact the City Clerk’s office at
415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org to learn more about participation by
telephone.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

 Present:      Mayor Phillips
               Vice Mayor Colin
               Councilmember Bushey
               Councilmember Gamblin
               Councilmember McCullough
 Absent:       None
 Also Present: City Manager Jim Schutz
               City Attorney Robert Epstein
               City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION – (669) 900-9128, ID: 858-0160-7081# – 5:30 PM
    1. Mayor Phillips announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – (669) 900-9128, ID: 858-0160-7081# – 5:30 PM
    2. Closed Session:
       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators – Government Code Section 54957.6
          Lead Negotiator: Timothy L. Davis (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
          Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Shibani Nag
          Employee Organizations: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
                                                                                                 Page 1 of 7
          Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
          Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
          Association



                             REGULAR MEETING - VIRTUAL MEETING
                                  Telephone: (669) 900-9128,
                                      ID: 857-6072-3570

Mayor Phillips called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through YouTube
live chat.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session

City Clerk Lindsay Lara explained the process for community participation through the telephone and
on YouTube.

   OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Correspondence in real-time through YouTube or telephone
      • Faye Barrett addressed the City Council regarding Coronavirus
      • Salamah Locks, Marin County Commission on Aging, addressed the City Council regarding
      Census 2020 and the Commission’s June 4th meeting

   CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
   3. City Manager’s Report:

   City Manager Jim Schutz provided an update on the City’s response to COVID-19, including new
   health orders and showed a video of City staff thanking our first responders and everyone working
   on this crisis (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_js4Lv_Gi7Q&feature=youtu.be)

   Mayor Phillips expressed thanks for the report from the City Manager regarding the City’s response
   to COVID-19 and commented on a recent conversation he had with Dr. Willis, Marin County Public
   Health Officer

   CONSENT CALENDAR:
   4. Consent Calendar Items:

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none

       Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve Consent
                                                                                            Page 2 of 7
   Calendar items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      May 4, 2020 (CC)
      Approved as submitted

   b. Francisco Blvd. East Sidewalk Improvements Project
      Resolutions Related to the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements
      Project, City Project No. 11349 (PW):

     i.    Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
           Construction Agreement for the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk
           Improvements Project with Ghilotti Bros., Inc in the Amount of $3,996,596.50,
           Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of $563,403.50, and
           Authorizing a Construction Allowance for Additional Traffic Signal and Storm
           Drain Improvements in the Amount of $900,000 for a Total Appropriated
           Amount of $5,460,000
           Resolution 14795 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to
           Execute a Construction Agreement for the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk
           Improvements Project with Ghilotti Bros., Inc in the Amount of $3,996,596.50,
           Authorizing Contingency Funds in the Amount of $563,403.50, and Authorizing a
           Construction Allowance for Additional Traffic Signal and Storm Drain Improvements
           in the Amount of $900,000 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $5,460,000

     ii.   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
           Professional Services Agreement with Park Engineering, Inc. for Inspection
           Services Associated with the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements
           Project, in the Amount of $373,504
           Resolution 14796 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute
           a Professional Services Agreement with Park Engineering, Inc. for Inspection Services
           Associated with the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements Project, in the
           Amount of $373,504

   AYES:          Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:          Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:        Councilmembers:      None

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
5. Public Hearings:

   a. Annual Progress Report on Housing



                                                                                      Page 3 of 7
      Annual Progress Report (APR) on: Housing Units Submitted, Approved and Built in
      2019; and Update on Progress of Implementing Programs in the Housing Element
      (CD)

      Paul Jensen, Community Development Director and Ali Giudice, Principal Planner, presented
      the Staff Report

      Mayor Phillips opened the public hearing

      Speakers: Peter Dickinson, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

      There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
      hearing

      Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the report


      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. COVID-19 Economic Recovery Plan (CERP)
      Informational Report About the City of San Rafael’s Draft Covid-19 Economic
      Recovery
      Plan (CM)

      Jim Schutz, City Manager commented on the item and introduced Cristine Alilovich,
      Assistant City Manager who presented the report along with Nadine Hade, Finance Director
      and Danielle O’Leary, Economic Development Director

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment

      Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Name withheld

      There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
      comment period

      Councilmembers provided comments

                                                                                     Page 4 of 7
      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Gamblin seconded to accept the report
      and provide direction to staff

      AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
      NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

      Accepted report and provided direction to staff

Meeting called to recess

Meeting called back into session

   b. Plan Bay Area 2050 – Priority Development Areas (PDA)
      Informational Report on Proposed Priority Development Areas for the City of San
      Rafael (CD)

      Paul Jensen, Community Development Director and Ethan Guy, Principal Analyst, presented
      the Staff Report

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers

      Mayor Phillips invited public comment

      Speakers: Linda Jackson, Program Director Aging Action Initiative, Bill Carney, Sustainable
      San Rafael, Kate Powers, Cathy Manovi, David Smith, Emma Sturdevant, Leyla Hill, Donni
      Uzarski, Shirley Fischer, Grace G, Johnson Reynolds, Maika Llorens Gulati, Rachel Kertz, Scott
      Frerich, Eric Boales

      There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
      comment period

      Staff responded to comments and questions from the public

      Staff responded to comments and questions from the City Council and Councilmembers
      provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to direct the
      City Manager to submit a letter of interest nominating priority development areas for the
      City of San Rafael and return to City Council with a resolution before June 30, 2020 and that
      the letter of interest include the Northgate PDA Map 1 and the Canal PDA Map 2 expanded
      to include the Woodland area

      AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
      NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None
                                                                                    Page 5 of 7
   Directed the City Manager to submit a Letter of Interest nominating Priority Development
   Areas for the City of San Rafael and return to City Council with a Resolution before June 30,
   2020 and that the letter of interest include the Northgate PDA Map 1 and the Canal PDA Map
   2 expanded to include the Woodland area

c. Measure A Workplan and Preliminary Capital Improvement Program
  i. Resolution Approving the Measure A Work Plan for Proposed Expenditure of
     Measure A Funds for July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021 (PW/LR/Fin)

 ii.   Report on Preliminary Three-Year Capital Improvement Program

       Hunter Young, Assistant Public Works Director and Nadine Hade, Finance Director
       presented the Staff Report

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment

       Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

       There being no further comment from the audience, Mayor Phillips closed the public
       comment period

       Staff responded to questions from the City Council

       Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
       resolution and accept the report

       AYES:         Councilmembers: Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:         Councilmembers: None
       ABSENT:       Councilmembers: None

       Resolution 14797 - Resolution Approving the Measure A Work Plan for Proposed
       Expenditure of Measure A Funds for July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021

       Accepted report

d. Response to Grand Jury Report on Web Transparency
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the City of San Rafael
   Response to the 2019-2020 Marin County Grand Jury Report Entitled "Follow-Up
   Report on Web Transparency of Agency Compensation Practices,” Dated April 28,
   2020 (CA)

   Lisa Goldfien, Assistant City Attorney presented the Staff Report

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none

                                                                                     Page 6 of 7
       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Colin seconded to adopt the resolution

       AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
       NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
       ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

       Resolution 14798 - Resolution Approving the Measure A Work Plan for Proposed Expenditure
       of Measure A Funds for July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
7. Councilmember Reports:

   •   Mayor Phillips announced upcoming SMART and Wildfire Prevention Authority meetings.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:


   Mayor Phillips adjourned the City Council meeting at 10:39 p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                                LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2020

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                           GARY O. PHILLIPS, Mayor




                                                                                           Page 7 of 7
