                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL –TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-01-18
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati (joined at 7:03 p.m.)
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati. She
    joined the meeting at 7:03 p.m.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgment, gratitude to City
    staff and honoring Martin Luther King Jr.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Lori, addressed the City Council regarding the Third Street Improvements item at the May
     3, 2021 Council Meeting.
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding Martin Luther King and services at
     the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 and Omicron Update
    • Update on in-person meetings

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority, Point-in-Time
          Count and Alert Marin.
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, water resources
          and library issues.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on the Southern Heights Bridge opening and a MCCMC
          Water Committee meeting.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on COVID and the retirement of Natu
          Tuatagaloa, San Rafael Board of Education.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on Marin Transit and 580/101 Ad Hoc meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      December 20, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

                                                                                        2
b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
   Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
   Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
   and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
   the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
   Resolution 15017 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
   the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
   Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
   the COVID-19 Pandemic

c. Vacancies on San Rafael Boards and Commissions
   Announcement of Vacancies on the Cannabis Industry Tax Oversight Committee and the
   Fire Commission (CC)
   Received and filed

d. Pickleweed Advisory Committee Appointment
   Approve Appointment of Miguel Hau-Gutierrez to the Pickleweed Advisory Committee as
   a Youth Member to the End of December 2024 (CC)
   Approved appointment

e. Residential Building Resale (RBR) Report
   Resolution Adopting an Extension of Temporary Measures for Administering the
   Residential Building Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San Rafael Municipal
   Code Title 12 (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential Building Record)
   During the High Demand Real Estate Market and COVID-19 Pandemic (CD)
   Resolution 15018 - Resolution Adopting an Extension of Temporary Measures for Administering
   the Residential Building Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San Rafael Municipal Code
   Title 12 (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential Building Record) During the
   High Demand Real Estate Market and COVID-19 Pandemic

f. City Quarterly Investment Report
   Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
   December 31, 2021 (Fin)
   Accepted report

g. Fire Mid-Management Personnel Changes
   Resolution Approving the Reclassification of One Fire Department Battalion Chief Position
   to a Deputy Fire Chief and Add a Deputy Director of Emergency Management Position
   (HR)
   Resolution 15019 - Resolution Approving the Reclassification of One Fire Department Battalion
   Chief Position to a Deputy Fire Chief and Add a Deputy Director of Emergency Management
   Position

h. Revised Salary and Benefit Plan for Temporary Employees
   Resolution Rescinding Resolution 14268 and Adopting a Revised Temporary, Seasonal,
   Retiree, and Fixed-Term Employees Salary and Benefit Plan and Salary Schedule (HR)
   Resolution 15020 - Resolution Rescinding Resolution 14268 and Adopting a Revised Temporary,
   Seasonal, Retiree, and Fixed-Term Employees Salary and Benefit Plan and Salary Schedule

i.   California State Preschool Program Continued Funding Application

                                                                                             3
       Resolution Authorizing the Senior Recreation Supervisor-Child Care to Submit an
       Application to the California Department of Education for a Grant to Provide Child Care
       and Development Services for Fiscal Year 2022-2023, and if Granted, to Sign all Necessary
       Grant Documents (LR)
       Resolution 15021 - Resolution Authorizing the Senior Recreation Supervisor-Child Care to Submit
       an Application to the California Department of Education for a Grant to Provide Child Care and
       Development Services for Fiscal Year 2022-2023, and if Granted, to Sign all Necessary Grant
       Documents

  j.   Albert Park Fencing and Netting
       Albert Park Fencing and Netting Project, City Project No. 11372 Bid Rejection (PW)
       Rejected bid and directed staff to develop design alternatives

  k. Caltrans Local Procedures
     Resolution Adopting Chapter 10 of the Caltrans Local Assistance Procedures Manual
     Entitled “Consultant Selection”, as well as All Future Updates, as the Process by which the
     City Procures Architectural and Engineering Consultant Services Related to Federal and
     State Funded Transportation Projects (PW)
     Resolution 15022 - Resolution Adopting Chapter 10 of the Caltrans Local Assistance Procedures
     Manual Entitled “Consultant Selection”, as well as All Future Updates, as the Process by which
     the City Procures Architectural and Engineering Consultant Services Related to Federal and State
     Funded Transportation Projects

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

PUBLIC HEARING AT 7:30 PM:
6. Public Hearing:

  a. 2021-2022 City Council Redistricting Process
     Second Public Hearing on Existing Council District Lines and Possible Changes (CA)

       City Attorney Robert Epstein introduced Marguerite Leon, Legal Counsel from Nielsen
       Merksamer. She and Kristen Parks, National Demographics Corporation presented the Staff
       Report.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

       Staff responded to public comment.

       Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
       report.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None
                                                                                               4
      Accepted report

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Quentin Pump Station
      Informational Report regarding the San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project and
      Funding (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced April Miller, Assistant Public Works Director
      who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule (ROPS) for Fiscal Year 2022-23
      Acceptance of ROPS Report and Authorization to Submit to the Marin County Successor
      Agency Oversight Board and the State Department of Finance (Fin)
      Accepted report

   b. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Members:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Chair Kate
NOES:   Members:        None
ABSENT: Members:        None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:36 p.m.

                                                                                          5
            ___________________________
              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

      _____________________________________
                KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                              6
