                                                MINUTES
                       SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, AUGUST 16, 2021

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-08-16
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                         ID: 899-2635-9885#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:           Mayor Kate
                       Councilmember Hill
                       Councilmember Kertz (absent after 8:15 p.m.)
                       Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:            Vice Mayor Bushey
    Also Present:      Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                       City Attorney Robert Epstein
                       City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 853-8238-1398# - 6:30 P.M.
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Legal Counsel—Existing Litigation
          Government Code section 54956.9(d)(1)
          Name of case: Karl Bracy v. Officer Joseph Jordan et al., U.S. District Court Northern District
          of California Case No. 4:20-cv-07585 DMR

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Vice Mayor Bushey.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
    held prior to the meeting. The City Council voted to approve a settlement in the pending case of
    Karl Bracy v. City of San Rafael, et. al. He indicated the terms of the settlement include the City will
pay the sum of $29,500.00 in exchange for the plaintiff’s dismissal of the case with prejudice and
release of all claims.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the recent, updated UN Climate Report,
wildfire prevention, conserving water, back to school time and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
   • COVID-19 update
   • County rental assistance update
   • City’s eviction moratorium update
   • Measure A update

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on the Social Justice Community Art project, Marin
           Homeless Policy Steering Committee, Economic Development Subcommittee, and
           upcoming Age-Friendly Committee/CERT/Fire Department events.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on an Ad Hoc Green Micro Grid Solutions Policy Makers
           Group meeting.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Grand Opening for the De Colores
           Children’s Center and Safety Net Services Hub.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on National Night Out, Grand Opening of first part of Public Art
           process at 3301 Kerner Blvd. and a Canal Policy Working Group meeting.

CONSENT CALENDAR:

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, August
      2, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted


                                                                                           2
  b. Sale of 30 Joseph Court Property to County of Marin
     Resolution Authorizing the Mayor to Sign the Grant Deed and Escrow Documents for
     Sale of Real Property Located at 30 Joseph Court to the County of Marin (CA/PW)
     Resolution 14962 - Resolution Authorizing the Mayor to Sign the Grant Deed and Escrow
     Documents for Sale of Real Property Located at 30 Joseph Court to the County of Marin

  c. San Rafael General Plan 2040 Ordinance Adoption
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1996: An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal
     Code Amending Title 14 (Zoning Ordinance) and Amending the Zoning Map of the San
     Rafael Municipal Code to: A) Repeal the Existing Downtown Zoning Districts, and Replace
     with Downtown Mixed-Use (DMU) District; B) Amend, Delete and Replace Certain Zoning
     Provisions Applicable to Downtown San Rafael; and C) Amend, Delete and Replace Other
     Zoning Regulations to Comply with State Law and Incorporate Other Minor Changes,
     Corrections and Updates (CD)
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1996

  d. San Rafael Downtown Precise Plan Ordinance Adoption
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1997: An Ordinance Adopting the Downtown San Rafael
     Precise Plan – Chapter 9 Downtown Form-Based Code to Serve as the Primary Regulatory
     City Zoning Code for Downtown San Rafael (CD)
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1997

  e. Albert J. Boro Community Center Community Use Policy
     Resolution Approving the Updated Albert J. Boro Community Center Community Use
     Policy (LR)
     Resolution 14963 - Resolution Approving the Updated Albert J. Boro Community Center
     Community Use Policy

  f. Parks, Events, and Activities Municipal Code Amendments Ordinance Adoption
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1998: An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal
     Code to Change the Name of Title 19 from “Open Space” to “Public Parks, Property, and
     Open Space”; to Repeal Chapter 8.10 (Parks and Recreation) and Add a New Chapter 19.20
     (Parks and Recreation) to Title 19; to Repeal Chapter 5.70 (Meetings Assemblies and
     Parades In Public Places) of Title 5 and Add a New Chapter 19.30 (Assemblies and Parades
     In Public Streets and Rights-Of-Way) to Title 19; to Add New Chapter 19.40 (Expressive
     Activities In Public Places) to Title 19; to Add New Section 5.60.054 to Chapter 5.60
     (Parking Regulations); and Finding the Ordinance Exempt from the California
     Environmental Quality Act (CA/LR)
     Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1998

  g. Renewal of Abandoned Vehicle Enforcement Program
     Resolution Approving the Request to Extend the Marin County Abandoned Vehicle
     Abatement Program Service Authority Service Fee Through April 30, 2032 (PS)
     Resolution 14964 - Resolution Approving the Request to Extend the Marin County Abandoned
     Vehicle Abatement Program Service Authority Service Fee Through April 30, 2032

AYES:   Councilmembers:      Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:      Bushey


                                                                                       3
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Rafael Social Justice Community Art Group Proposal for a Public Art Installation
      Resolution Approving the Design and Installation of a Public Art Mural at Arbor Park (CM)

      Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager, Damien Oyobio, San Rafael Social Justice
      Community Art Group, Kristen Jacobsen, Youth in Arts, Orin Carpenter, Lead Artist and
      Owen Martinez-Alejandre, Youth Art Assistant presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Pam, Reese

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Bushey

      Resolution 14966 - Resolution Approving the Design and Installation of a Public Art Mural at
      Arbor Park

      Councilmember Kertz left the meeting after item 6.a, at 8:15 p.m.

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
7. Special Presentations:
   a. Presentation by PG&E on Wildfire Planning (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Mark van Gorder and Austin Sharp, Pacific
      Gas and Electric who gave a presentation.

      Presenters responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Jennifer, David Smith

      Presenters responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

   b. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of National Preparedness Month 2021 (FD)

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Quinn Gardner, Emergency Management
      Coordinator.
                                                                                           4
       Quinn Gardner, Emergency Management Coordinator provided comments.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

       Fire Chief Darin White provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
8. Public Hearings:

   a. Authorization for Background Checks
      City Council Authorization for Background Checks for City Employment and City Licenses
      (PD)

       Police Chief David Spiller presented the Staff Report.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      i.   Consideration of an Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council Adding Chapter
           2.22 to the San Rafael Municipal Code, Entitled “Background Checks”

       Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass the
       ordinance to print.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:         Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz

       Passed Ordinance No. 1999 to print

     ii.   Resolution Authorizing the City to Access State and Federal Summary Criminal History
           for New Employee and Licensee Background Information Through the Department of
           Justice

       Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:         Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz

       Resolution 14966 - Resolution Authorizing the City to Access State and Federal Summary
       Criminal History for New Employee and Licensee Background Information Through the
       Department of Justice

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS (continued)
9. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Rafael 2023-2031 Housing Element

                                                                                         5
      Informational Report on the 2023-2031 Housing Element and Community Engagement
      Program (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Barry Miller, Consultant who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Reese, Phil Hallstein, Responsible Growth Marin (RGM), David Smith

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Bushey, Kertz

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:01 p.m.




                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         6
