                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2024

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                          Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-06-03
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 844-3204-9611#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,84432049611# US

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION– THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:30 PM
    1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:30 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL-EXISTING LITIGATION
            Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9: 2 cases
            Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board Case No. ADJ16750346 (Claim No. 2193400026)
            Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board Case No. ADJ17551891 (Claim No. 2293400123)

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in closed session.
Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included the Pride flag raising ceremony held before
the meeting, gratitude to City Staff, an announcement of the City’s new Fire Chief Abraham Roman,
Gun Violence Awareness Month and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
       • Pride Month -
              o Downtown Business Improvement District to celebrate with a Pride Art Walk
              o The California Film Institute to host a Pride Film Festival
              o The Suicide Prevention Collaborative to host a virtual meeting called A Holistic
                 Approach to LGBTQ+ Allyship for Suicide Prevention to be held Wednesday,
                 June 5, 2-3 p.m.
              o Downtown Library to host a Read with Pride event to be held Saturday, June 15,
                 11 a.m.–3 p.m.
       • Sea Level Rise community open house to be held Saturday, June 8, at the Al Boro
          Community Center, 9 a.m.–noon.
       • Juneteenth talk with historian John William Templeton to be held Tuesday, June 11 at
          the Downtown Library, 6-7 p.m.
       • City administrative services and offices to be closed Wednesday, June 19, in observance
          of Juneteenth

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Hill reported on a Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers
          (MCCMC) meeting and his nomination as President.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on the MCCMC meeting and her appointment to
          represent the large cities on the planning for the bay area housing bond measure. Also,
          she attended the Chamber of Commerce Art with Purpose celebration.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Marin Transit Board meeting and the MCCMC
          meeting.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a Transportation Authority of Marin meeting and a Safe Routes
          to Schools meeting. Also, she threw the first pitch for the San Rafael Pacifics.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Consent Calendar items; however, there were none.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of May 20, 2024 (CC)
                                                                                          2
   Approved minutes as submitted

b. Ordinance Amending Green Building Codes
   Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2036: An Ordinance of the San Rafael City Council
   Amending Title 12 (Building Regulations) of the San Rafael Municipal Code, By Amending
   the California Energy Code, the 2022 California Green Building Standards Code for Electric
   Vehicle Chargers, the 2022 California Mechanical Code, and the 2022 California Plumbing
   Code; Adding a New Chapter 12.360 with Administrative and Program Regulations on
   Model Reach Codes; and Adopting Findings of Fact Supporting the Amendments to the
   Codes (CC)
   Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2036

c. Statement of Economic Interests Annual Filings
   Accept Report on Fair Political Practices Commission Form 700, Statement of Economic
   Interests, 2023 Annual Filings, for Section 87200 Filers and Designated Employees,
   Including Consultants, Design Review Board and Park and Recreation Commission (CC)
   Accepted report

d. 2024 General Municipal Election
   Resolution Calling and Giving Notice of At-Large Elections, By-District Elections for
   Districts 1/Southern and 4/Northern, and San Rafael Board of Education Trustee Area
   Elections for Areas 1, 3 and 5, to be Held on November 5, 2024, Requesting the Marin
   County Board of Supervisors to Consolidate with Any Other Election Conducted on Said
   Date, and Requesting Election Services (CC)
   Resolution 15290 - Resolution Calling and Giving Notice of At-Large Elections, By-District
   Elections for Districts 1/Southern and 4/Northern, and San Rafael Board of Education Trustee
   Area Elections for Areas 1, 3 and 5, to be Held on November 5, 2024, Requesting the Marin
   County Board of Supervisors to Consolidate with Any Other Election Conducted on Said Date,
   and Requesting Election Services

e. Proclamations
   Proclamations Supporting:
      i. LGBTQIA+ Pride Month
     ii. National Gun Violence Awareness Day
    iii. National Immigrant Heritage Month
    iv. Alzheimer's and Brain Awareness Month
         Received and filed

f. Five-Year Agreement with Axon Enterprise, Inc. for Police Department Technology
   Hardware and Software Services
   Authorize the City Manager to Enter into a Five-Year Agreement with Axon Enterprise, Inc.
   in the Total Amount Not to Exceed $1,215,531.82 (PD)
   Authorized the City Manager to enter into a five-year agreement with Axon Enterprise, Inc. in the
   total amount not to exceed $1,215,531.82

g. Lincoln Avenue Corridor Safety Improvements Project Funding Agreement
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Program
   Supplement Agreement with Caltrans to Receive State Funds (PW)
   Resolution 15291 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
   Program Supplement Agreement with Caltrans to Receive State Funds

                                                                                             3
AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Llorens Gulati

PUBLIC HEARINGS
5. Public Hearings:

   a. AB 481 Military Equipment Annual Report and Renewal of Military Equipment Use Policy
      Resolution Renewing the Ordinance Approving San Rafael Police Department Military
      Equipment Use Policy 706 (PD)

      Lieutenant Scott Eberle presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
      Renewing the Ordinance Approving San Rafael Police Department Military Equipment Use
      Policy 706

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15292 - Resolution Renewing the Ordinance Approving San Rafael Police Department
      Military Equipment Use Policy 706

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Preliminary Citywide Proposed Budget for Fiscal Year 2024-25
      Preliminary Citywide Proposed Budget and Proposed Capital Improvement Program for
      Fiscal Year 2024-25 (Fin)

      City Manager Cristine Alilovich introduced the item.

      Finance Director Paul Navazio and Assistant Director of Public Works Joanna Kwok
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Zoe Neil, Downtown Streets Team, Shinji Sakai-Egi

      Staff responded to questions from the community.

      Councilmembers provided comments.
                                                                                          4
   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to receive the report
   on the Preliminary Citywide Proposed Budget and Proposed Capital Improvement Program
   for Fiscal Year 2024-25

  AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

  Received report related to the Preliminary Citywide Proposed Budget for Fiscal Year 2024-25 and
  provided direction to staff to inform preparation of the Final Proposed FY 2024-25 Budget for
  adoption at the City Council meeting of June 17, 2024

b. Economic Development Strategic Plan
   Economic Development Strategic Plan Annual Report (CED)

   Community & Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle and Economic Development
   Program Manager Stacey Loughman presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Hill seconded to accept the Economic
   Development Strategic Plan Annual Report.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

  Accepted report

c. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael Police Mid-Management
   Association (SRPMMA)
   Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management
   Association (SRPMMA), Beginning June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027) (CM/HR)

   Nick Biss, Principal Human Resources Analyst presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Vice Mayor Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
   Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation and
   Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association (SRPMMA),
   Beginning June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027)
                                                                                          5
   AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15293 - Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining
   to Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association
   (SRPMMA), Beginning June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027)

d. Successor Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association
   (SRFCOA)
   Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association
   (SRFCOA), Beginning June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027) (CM/HR)

   Nick Biss, Principal Human Resources Analyst presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution
   Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation and
   Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association (SRFCOA), Beginning
   June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027)

   AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 15294 - Resolution Approving a Successor Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining
   to Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association
   (SRFCOA), Beginning June 1, 2024 Through June 30, 2027)

e. An Initiative Measure to Provide Funding for the Construction of a New Main Library and
   Community Center at Albert Park
      I.   Certificate of Sufficiency of the Petition for the Proposed Initiative Measure Amending
           the City of San Rafael’s Municipal Code to Provide Funding for Construction of a New
           Main Library and Community Center at Albert Park

     II.   Resolution Ordering the Submission to the Qualified Electors of the City of San Rafael
           a Citizen-Sponsored Initiative Measure to Amend the Municipal Code to Provide
           Funding for Construction of a New Main Library and Community Center at Albert Park
           in Downtown San Rafael, at the Consolidated General Election on Tuesday November
           5, 2024; Establishing the Schedule for Submission of Ballot Arguments; and Authorizing
           and Requesting the County of Marin Conduct the Election (CC)

   City Clerk Lindsay Lara and City Attorney Robert Epstein presented the Staff Report.


                                                                                           6
       Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment.

       Speakers: Joe O’Hare, San Rafael Public Library Foundation Board & Revitalize San Rafael
       Library and Community Center Campaign, Kingston Cole, Coalition of Sensible Tax Payers
       (COST), Chuck Stuckey, Gary Ragghianti, San Rafael Public Library Foundation, Brad Sears

       Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Hill seconded to Accept Certificate of
       Sufficiency of the petition for the proposed Initiative Measure amending the City of San
       Rafael’s Municipal Code to provide funding for construction of a new main library and
       community center at Albert Park

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Llorens Gulati

      Accepted Certificate of Sufficiency of the petition for the proposed Initiative Measure amending the
      City of San Rafael’s Municipal Code to provide funding for construction of a new main library and
      community center at Albert Park

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Hill seconded to Adopt the Resolution
       Ordering the Submission to the Qualified Electors of the City of San Rafael a Citizen-
       Sponsored Initiative Measure to Amend the Municipal Code to Provide Funding for
       Construction of a New Main Library and Community Center at Albert Park in Downtown
       San Rafael, at the Consolidated General Election on Tuesday November 5, 2024;
       Establishing the Schedule for Submission of Ballot Arguments; and Authorizing and
       Requesting the County of Marin Conduct the Election.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 15295 - Resolution Ordering the Submission to the Qualified Electors of the City of San
      Rafael a Citizen-Sponsored Initiative Measure to Amend the Municipal Code to Provide Funding for
      Construction of a New Main Library and Community Center at Albert Park in Downtown San Rafael,
      at the Consolidated General Election on Tuesday November 5, 2024; Establishing the Schedule for
      Submission of Ballot Arguments; and Authorizing and Requesting the County of Marin Conduct the
      Election

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
The following people addressed the City Council regarding the City’s labor agreements:
• The following speakers addressed the city council regarding SEIU labor negotiations:
        o Jocelyn, Joe, Jana Blunt, Trisha Cerutti-Saylors, Kenny

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

                                                                                                   7
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:36 p.m. in honor of Cyr Miller, former City Councilmember.

                                                        ___________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           8
