                                                 MINUTES

                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2026

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-2
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 860-6190-5675#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Vice Mayor Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll.

    Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara announced that the City Council met in the
    Closed Session held before the regular meeting and voted unanimously to authorize a settlement
    in the worker's compensation case at 50% permanent disability.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, an acknowledgment
    regarding the uncertainty, concern and fear people are having about what’s happening in our nation
    and the world, volunteering locally, an Open Time for Public Expression update, and a land
    acknowledgment.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
    and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
    comment and closed captioning on Zoom.
OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 10 MINUTES
  • William Rawlins addressed the City Council regarding parking tickets for his truck with a
     slide-in camper.
  • Nancy Long addressed the City Council regarding the Starkweather Path lighting project
     and the proposed art installation there.
  • Susan Levine addressed the City Council regarding the Starkweather Path lighting project
     and the proposed art installation.
  • Mark Fallos addressed the City Council regarding the Starkweather Path lighting project.
  • Jeffrey Sanchez, Marin Cyclists, addressed the City Council regarding bicycle safety on Pt.
     San Pedro Road.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
1. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • San Rafael’s receipt of Bloomberg’s What Works Cities Designation
       • AT&T 911 Failure and Update
       • Fatality of Lucia Jennifer Blandina Sontay Vicente on Pt. San Pedro Road
       • 350 Merrydale Interim Shelter Project community meeting
       • Prescribed burns - Subscribe to Alert Marin
       • Final call for nominations for the 2026 Public Service Award
       • Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART) Oversight Committee – Call out for
         applications – Applications due by Tuesday, February 3
       • 3rd Annual Downtown San Rafael Lunar New Year Horse Hunt & Word Scramble
         Challenge to start February 17
       • Police Advisory & Accountability Committee meeting to be held Wednesday, January
         21, 6 p.m.
       • Planning Commission meeting to be held Tuesday, January 27, 7 p.m.
       • Sea Level Rise Feasibility Study final results presentation to be held Monday, January
         26, 12 p.m. on Zoom, and again at 6 p.m. in Spanish on Zoom

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Kertz announced the “What About Age?” art exhibit, running January 26
          through May 6, at the Marin County Civic Center Galleries.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Marin Transit meeting, a Canal Promise
          Neighborhood Steering Committee meeting, a Marin Clean Energy Executive
          Committee meeting, a Marin Clean Energy board meeting, a Canal Transportation and
          Lighting meeting, and a Climate Change Action Plan forum.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Marin Transit meeting, a San Rafael Sanitation
          board meeting where a draft agreement was approved with Central Marin Sanitation
          Agency (CMSA) that will move City employees to CMSA, and a Montecito Area
          Residents Association meeting.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a Finance Subcommittee meeting.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a visit with Laurel Dell 2nd graders at City Hall, a Sonoma
          Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART) meeting, speaking at the San Rafael Chamber of
          Commerce Leadership Institute, speaking at the Marin County Civil Grand Jury, and a
          Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

                                                                                      Page 2 of 6
Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Wayne Rayburn, Gregory Andrew

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Gregory Andrew, Marianne Nannestad

Staff responded to questions raised on items 2.h and 2.b.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

2. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Closed Session and Regular City Council Meeting of December 15,
      2025 (CC)
      Approved Minutes as submitted

   b. Temporary Camping Prohibition at City Hall
      Resolution Prohibiting Camping at or Around City Hall (APN 011-203-12) from January
      21, 2026 through July 21, 2026: CEQA Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA
      Guidelines 15061(B)(3); 15307, 15308 (CM)
      Adopted Resolution 15494

   c. Award WRT Consultants Contract to Prepare the Southeast Specific Plan
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute A Professional Services Agreement
      with WRT Consultants for the Preparation of the Southeast San Rafael Specific Plan in an
      Amount Not to Exceed $797,000; and Authorizing A Supplemental Budget Appropriation
      within the Development Services Fund (207) (CED)
      Adopted Resolution 15495

   d. Voter-Approved Tax Oversight Committee Annual Report & Bylaws Amendment
      Presentation of Voter-Approved Tax Oversight Committee’s (VATOC) Annual Report for
      the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2025 and Resolution Amending the Bylaws of the Voter-
      Approved Tax Oversight Committee Established by Resolution 15118, Adopted on
      September 6, 2022 (Fin)
      Accepted report and Adopted Resolution 15496

   e. Replacement of Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Purchase Orders for Self-Contained
      Breathing Apparatus from Southern Marin Fire District, In An Amount Not to Exceed
      $92,170, and from Allstar Fire Equipment Inc., In An Amount Not to Exceed $48,629, and
      Authorizing FY 2025-26 Supplemental Budget Appropriations within the Fire Equipment
      Replacement Fund (625) (FD)
      Adopted Resolution 15497
                                                                                    Page 3 of 6
   f. South Merrydale Road – Civic Center Connector Pathway Project
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
      with CSWST2 to Provide Design and Environmental Services for the South Merrydale Road
      – Civic Center Connector Pathway Project in the Amount Not to Exceed $469,963 (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15498

   g. Metropolitan Transportation Committee (MTC) Transportation Development Act Article 3
         (TDA 3) Funding Agreements
      i.    Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Funding Agreement with
            Metropolitan Transportation Commission in an Amount of $66,700 in TDA Grant Funds
            for the Park Street and Belle Avenue Pedestrian Enhancement Project; and
     ii.    Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Funding Agreement with
            Metropolitan Transportation Commission in an Amount of $88,300 in TDA Grant Funds
            for the Point San Pedro Pedestrian Quick Build Enhancement Project
            Adopted Resolutions 15499 and 15500

   h. Joint Quiet Zone Agreement
      Resolution Establishing a Joint Quiet Zone and Designating the County of Sonoma as Lead
      Authority for Purposes of Establishing the Joint Quiet Zone; CEQA Determination: Exempt
      (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15501

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
3. Special Presentations:

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of Bloomberg Philanthropies What Works
      Cities Certification (DS)

      Mayor Kate presented the Proclamation, and Digital Service and Open Government Director
      Sean Mooney & Product Manager Vedika Ahuja gave a presentation about the award.

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
4. Public Hearings:

   a. Public Works Director Authority to Approve Public Works Project Plans
      Consideration of An Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code Section 2.12.290,
      Duties of the Supervisor of Public Works, to Clarify Delegation of Authority to the
      Supervisor of Public Works and Designees to Approve Plans, Specifications, and Designs
      for Public Works Projects; CEQA Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline
      15378(b)(5) (CED)

      Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Vishveshwara introduced Deputy City Attorney
      Katherine Kasameyer who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.


                                                                                   Page 4 of 6
     Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to introduce the Ordinance,
     waive further reading, and refer to it by title only.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

      Introduced the Ordinance, waived further reading, and referred to it by title only.

     The City Clerk read the title of the Ordinance:
     An Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code Section 2.12.290, Duties of the
     Supervisor of Public Works, to Clarify Delegation of Authority to the Supervisor of Public
     Works and Designees to Approve Plans, Specifications, and Designs for Public Works
     Projects

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
5. Other Agenda Items

  a. City Council Governance, Agreements, Roles & Responsibilities and Communication
     Protocols
     Resolution Authorizing the City Council Approval of the City Council Governance,
     Agreements, Roles & Responsibilities and Communication Protocols (CM)

     City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided comments and introduced Senior Management
     Analyst Preya Nixon who presented the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment.

     Speakers: Ken Dickinson, Gregory Andrew, Victoria DeWitt

     Staff responded to questions from public comment.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
     Authorizing the City Council Approval of the City Council Governance, Agreements, Roles
     & Responsibilities and Communication Protocols and Authorize the City Manager to make
     such non-substantive grammar/punctuation corrections as may be needed.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

     Adopted Resolution 15502




                                                                                            Page 5 of 6
OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION CONTINUED
  • Joe Mulligan addressed the City Council regarding the fatality on Pt. San Pedro Road and
     bicycle and pedestrian safety.
  • David Snaith addressed the City Council regarding the fatality on Pt. San Pedro Road and
     bicycle and pedestrian safety.
  • Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding her See-Click-Fix submission for a
     crosswalk near the Civic Center.
  • Susan Yatta addressed the City Council regarding the Starkweather Path proposed art
     project.
  • Dave Rhoads addressed the City Council regarding the fatality on Pt. San Pedro Road and
     bicycle and pedestrian safety.
  • Aaron addressed the City Council regarding the fatality on Pt. San Pedro Road and bicycle
     and pedestrian safety.
  • Victoria DeWitt addressed the City Council regarding the placement of Open Time on the
     City Council and community engagement.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.
                                                          __________________________
                                                         LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2026

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                       Page 6 of 6
