                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MAY 2, 2022

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                             In-Person:
                                  San Rafael City Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                       Participate Virtually:
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-05-02
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
in-person,    virtually   using    Zoom      and    is     being     streamed     to   YouTube     at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees
  • Use the sign-in sheet (optional) which allows notification of potentially exposed individuals if
      contact tracing reveals COVID-19 transmission may have occurred in a given meeting
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                  Councilmember Llorens Gulati
Absent:           None
Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                  City Attorney Robert Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included tonight’s second in-person, hybrid City
Council meeting, gratitude to City Staff, Jewish American Heritage Month, Asian American and
Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Mental Health Awareness Month and a land acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded and streamed live to YouTube
and through Zoom, and members of the public would provide public comment either on the
telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation on the
telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session:

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.
  • Name Withheld, addressed the City Council requesting that they add to a future agenda a
     mandate against any additional, new long-term care facilities.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Parks and Recreation Master Plan Update
         o Community Meeting (Virtual) on Thursday, May 5 at 6 p.m.
         o Community Meeting (in Spanish) at Al Boro Community Center on Wednesday, May
             11 at 6 p.m.
    • Mental Health Matters Month – For May events, visit the Marin Behavioral Health and
      Recovery Services website at marinbhrs.org

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Age-Friendly, Fire Stations 54 & 55 groundbreaking,
           Government Alliance on Race and Equity (GARE), Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority,
           her Community Conversation and MCCMC Legislative meetings.

                                                                                            2
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Fire Station 55 groundbreaking, MCCMC Water
          Committee, Transportation Authority of Marin and her Community Conversation
          meetings.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Fire Station 54 groundbreaking, East San
          Rafael Parking Task Force, MCCMC Economic Recovery, her Community
          Conversation/Earth Day Clean-Up, Pickleweed Preschool/Police Department, Voces del
          Canal/Dominican/Canal Alliance Lighting meeting and Mission San Rafael Rotary 40th
          Anniversary Celebration meetings.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on his Community Conversation, MCCMC, Vice Mayor
          Kertz’s Community Conversation and Western Alliance for Nature dedication ceremony
          meetings.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on Consulate General of Guatemala, SMART, Marin Transit, Earth
          Day Downtown Clean-Up and Gun Safety Collaborative meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, April
      18, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Vacancies on San Rafael Boards and Commissions
      Announcement of Vacancies on the Design Review Board, Board of Library Trustees, Park
      and Recreation Commission, and Planning Commission (CC)
      Received and filed

   c. Use Of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15059 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic

   d. Streamlined Review for Certain Residential Projects (Formerly Design Review Advisory
      Committee, DRAC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2006: An Ordinance Amending Section 14.25.070 of Title 14
      (Zoning Ordinance) of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Establish Streamlined Review for
      Certain Residential Projects (CC)
      Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2006

   e. Adoption of a Military Equipment Funding, Acquisition and Use Policy in Compliance with
                                                                                         3
     Assembly Bill 481
     Final Adoption of Ordinance 2007: An Ordinance Adding New Chapter 2.52 to the San
     Rafael Municipal Code, entitled “Police Acquisition and Use of ‘Military Equipment,’” and
     Approving the San Rafael Police Department’s Policy §706 – Military Equipment Funding,
     Acquisition and Use Policy” (CC)
     Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2007

f. Citizen of the Year 2022
   Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario
   O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2022 (CC)
   Resolution 15060 - Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary
   Ferrario O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2022

g. Homelessness Program Consulting Services
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
   Professional Services with Marc Sabin for Consulting Services for San Rafael Homelessness
   Programs (CM)
   Resolution 15061 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
   Agreement for Professional Services with Marc Sabin for Consulting Services for San Rafael
   Homelessness Programs

h. 2021 Fire Prevention Inspections of Certain Occupancies
   Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of a Report Made by the Fire Chief Regarding the 2021
   Annual Fire Prevention Inspection of Certain Occupancies Pursuant to Sections 13146.2
   and 13146.3 of the California Health and Safety Code (FD)
   Resolution 15062 - Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of a Report Made by the Fire Chief
   Regarding the 2021 Annual Fire Prevention Inspection of Certain Occupancies Pursuant to
   Sections 13146.2 and 13146.3 of the California Health and Safety Code

i.   Advertising Transit Shelter Agreement
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to the Advertising
     Transit Shelter Agreement with Outfront Media LLC Extending the Term by Five Years
     (PW)
     Resolution 15063 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to the
     Advertising Transit Shelter Agreement with Outfront Media LLC Extending the Term by Five Years

j.   Temporary Street Closure to Support Vaccination Efforts in the Canal Neighborhood
     Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal Alliance’s Effort to
     Provide Covid-19 Vaccinations on Saturday May 7 and Saturday May 21, 2022 (PW)
     Resolution 15064 - Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal Alliance’s
     Effort to Provide Covid-19 Vaccinations on Saturday May 7 and Saturday May 21, 2022

k. Fire Station 55 - Environmental Services
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment to
   the Professional Services Agreement with BSK Associates, Inc. for Services Required for
   Environmental Permitting, Sampling, Soils Testing, and Removal and Soils Remediation
   Work Related to the Unforeseen Underground Storage Tank Discovered at Fire Station 55,
   In the Amount of $63,805, Increasing the Total Contract Amount to $209,549, And
   Authorizing the City Manager to Expand the Scope of Work if Extensive Contamination is
   Discovered (PW)

                                                                                            4
      Resolution 15065 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Professional Services Agreement with BSK Associates, Inc. for Services
      Required for Environmental Permitting, Sampling, Soils Testing, and Removal and Soils
      Remediation Work Related to the Unforeseen Underground Storage Tank Discovered at Fire
      Station 55, In the Amount of $63,805, Increasing the Total Contract Amount to $209,549, And
      Authorizing the City Manager to Expand the Scope of Work if Extensive Contamination is
      Discovered

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

      Mayor Kate invited public comment on Presentations of Proclamations, Items 6.b – 6.d;
      however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and
      Mary Ferrario O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2022

      Mayor Kate presented the Resolution of Appreciation to Samantha Ramirez.

      Samantha Ramirez provided comments.

   b. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Public Service Recognition Week (HR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Claire Coleman, Senior Management Analyst provided comments.

   c. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting National Police Week (PD)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Roy Leon, Police Captain provided comments.

   d. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Wildfire Awareness Month (FD)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Darin White, Fire Chief provided comments.

      After Items 6.b – 6.d, Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Presentation of Resolution
      of Appreciation, Item 6.a.

      Speakers: Marina Palma, Eva Chrysanthe

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati provided comments.



                                                                                          5
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Canal Neighborhood Lighting
      Accept Informational Report Regarding the Canal Lighting Project (CM)

      Walter Gonzalez, City Manager’s Office Intern, presented the Staff Report.

      Voces del Canal gave a presentation.

      Christine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager provided comments.

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided comments.

      David Spiller, Police Chief provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Mary, Jennifer Lucko, Dominican University, Marina Palma, Voces del Canal,
      CeCe, Dominican student, Norma Fragoso, John Reynolds, Julia Reinhard, Dominican
      student, Eva Chrysanthe

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

      RECESS: 9:33 – 9:36 p.m.

   b. Wildfire Prevention Efforts in San Rafael
      Informational Report on the 38-Point Wildfire Action Plan and Marin Wildfire Prevention
      Authority Activity in Recognition of Wildfire Awareness Month (FD)

      Quinn Gardner, Deputy Director of Emergency Management presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

                                                                                         6
      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

PUBLIC HEARING
8. Public Hearing:

   a. Amendment of the Current Smoking Ordinance
      Introduction of An Ordinance Amending Sections 9.04.030, 9.04.090 and 19.10.060 of the
      San Rafael Municipal Code to Prohibit Smoking in Open Space Year-Round and Require
      Designated Smoking Areas in Multi-Family Housing Complexes with Over 10 Units
      Located within 1,000 Feet from Open Space and Undeveloped Lots in Order to Prevent
      Cigarette-Caused Fires (FD)

      Quinn Gardner, Deputy Director of Emergency Management presented the Staff Report.

      Staff, including Bob Curry, Marin County Tobacco Control Program Manager responded to
      questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Name Withheld

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass
      Ordinance No. 2008 to print.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Passed to print Ordinance No. 2008 Amending Sections 9.04.030, 9.04.090 and 19.10.060 of
      the San Rafael Municipal Code to Prohibit Smoking in Open Space Year-Round and Require
      Designated Smoking Areas in Multi-Family Housing Complexes with Over 10 Units Located
      within 1,000 Feet from Open Space and Undeveloped Lots in Order to Prevent Cigarette-Caused
      Fires

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS (continued):
9. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Set Public Hearing for Amendment to San Rafael’s Building Code to Require Replacement
      of Wood Roofing
      Introduction of An Ordinance Amending Chapters 12.200 and 12.255 of the San Rafael
      Municipal Code to Make Local Amendments to California Building Codes to Require that
      Wood Roofing be Replaced by May 31, 2027 (FD)

      Quinn Gardner, Deputy Director of Emergency Management presented the Staff Report.

                                                                                          7
      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to pass Ordinance No.
      2009 to print and to set a public hearing on May 16, 2022.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Passed to print Ordinance No. 2009 Amending Chapters 12.200 and 12.255 of the San Rafael
      Municipal Code to Make Local Amendments to California Building Codes to Require that Wood
      Roofing be Replaced by May 31, 2027; And, set public hearing on May 16, 2022.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:36 p.m.


                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                          8
