                                                 MINUTES

                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2024

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-12-02
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 844-3204-9611#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,84432049611# US

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Rob Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff (especially to Police,
    Fire and Public Works for their work during the rains) and a land acknowledgment.

    CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
    (including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
    3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:
   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported on:
       • Appreciation to staff at Public Works, Fire and Police for their work during the storm
       • Public Health Updates (food recalls, the Bird Flu, COVID-19, etc.)
       • Santa Cop Program Update
       • Santa (arriving aboard Fire Engine 51) to visit kids at West End Nursery on Saturday,
         December 7, 1-3 p.m.
       • Lighted Boat Parade to be held Saturday, December 7, 6 p.m.
       • Menorah lighting and Gelt drop to be held Sunday, December 29, downtown, 5-6:30
         p.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on a Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority meeting.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a meeting with the Marin Transit Executive
          Director.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the steering committee kick-off for the
          county-wide Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan and the lighting of the holiday tree event.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Sonoma Marin Area Rapid Transit (SMART) and a ribbon-
          cutting for Paradise Sushi.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of November 18, 2024 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Public Art Review Board
         Resolution and Appointment (CC):
      i.    Resolution Amending the Public Art Review Board Bylaws to Remove the Planning
            Commission Representative and Replace it with an At-Large Member Seat
            Resolution 15357 - Resolution Amending the Public Art Review Board Bylaws to Remove the
            Planning Commission Representative and Replace it with an At-Large Member Seat
     ii.    Appoint Meili Zhao to the Public Art Review Board to the End of October 2028
            Approved appointment of Meili Zhao to the Public Art Review Board to the End of October
            2028

   c. Strategic Consulting Services
      Authorize the City Manager to Enter into a First Amendment to the Professional Services
      Agreement with CivicMakers, LLC for Strategic Consulting Services, In an Amount of
      $33,535, Increasing the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the Agreement to $98,535 (DS)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a first amendment to the professional services
      agreement with CivicMakers, LLC for strategic consulting services, in an amount of $33,535,
      increasing the total not-to-exceed amount of the agreement to $98,535

                                                                                                 2
   d. Telephone Project Implementation Services
      Authorize the City Manager to Enter into a First Amendment to the Professional Services
      Agreement with Xantrion, Inc. for Telephone Implementation Services, In an Amount of
      $40,000, Increasing the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the Agreement to $97,000 (DS)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a first amendment to the professional services
      agreement with Xantrion, Inc. for telephone implementation services in the amount of $40,000,
      increasing the total not-to-exceed amount of the agreement to $97,000

   e. Citywide Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan Update
      Authorize the City Manager to Enter into a Professional Services Agreement with
      Parametrix, Inc. to Update San Rafael’s Citywide Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan in the Amount
      Not to Exceed $236,710 (PW)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement with Parametrix, Inc.
      to update San Rafael’s Citywide Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan (CBPP) in the amount not to exceed
      $236,710; And, authorized supplemental budget appropriations of $16,710 from available Gas
      Tax funds (Fund 206) for the project

   f. Francisco Boulevard East Mid-Block Crossing Enhancement Project
       Authorize and Award Agreements for the Francisco Boulevard East Mid-Block Crossing
       Enhancement Project, Including:
       i.  A Construction Agreement with Mike Brown Electric, Co. in the Amount of $429,968
           and Authorize the City Manager to Use Contingency Funds of $86,032 for a Not-To
           Exceed Amount of $516,000 for the Project
           Awarded the construction agreement (the “Construction Agreement”) for the project to Mike
           Brown Electric Co., authorized the City Manager to execute the construction agreement in
           the amount of $429,968, and authorized the City Manager to amend the contract amount
           using contingency funds of $86,032 for a total not to exceed amount of $516,000 for the
           project
      ii.  A First Amendment to a Task Order Agreement with Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
           for Additional Construction Support Services, in an Additional Amount of $16,950,
           Increasing the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the Agreement to $85,643
           Authorized the City Manger to enter into a first amendment to the task order agreement
           with Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. (“Kimley-Horn”) for additional construction support
           services for the Project in an additional amount of $16,950, increasing the total not-to-
           exceed amount of the agreement to $85,643
     iii.  A Funding Agreement with Canal Alliance and Related Supplemental Budget
           Appropriation
           Authorized the City Manager to enter into a funding agreement with Canal Alliance and
           authorized supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $409,233 (Fund 206)
     iv.   Approve the Plans and Specifications for the Project (PW)
           Approved plans and specifications for the Francisco Boulevard East Mid-Block Crossing
           Enhancement Project (also referred to as “City Project No. 11451” and “the Project”),
           deemed reasonable by the City Engineer, on file in the Department of Public Works

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
5. Other Agenda Items:

                                                                                                     3
   a. Affordable Housing Funding Recommendation and Upcoming Notice of Funding
         Availability
      i.    Resolution Authorizing the Appropriation of $252,000 to Support the Acquisition of a
            Nine-Unit Apartment Building at 1400 Lincoln Avenue for the Preservation as
            Affordable Housing
     ii.    Informational Report on the Status and Scope of Joint Notice of Funding Availability
            with the County of Marin in January 2025

      Housing Manager Alexis Captanian presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Yolanda Oviedo, Canal Alliance, John Reynolds

      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution authorizing the appropriation of $252,000 to support the acquisition of a nine-
      unit apartment building at 1400 Lincoln Avenue for the preservation as affordable housing.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      Resolution 15358 - Resolution Authorizing the Appropriation of $252,000 to Support the
      Acquisition of a Nine-Unit Apartment Building at 1400 Lincoln Avenue for the Preservation as
      Affordable Housing

      Vice Mayor Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the informational
      report on the status and scope of joint notice of funding availability with the County of Marin
      in January 2025.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      Accepted informational report on the status and scope of joint notice of funding availability with
      the County of Marin in January 2025

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Northgate Town Square Project – Consideration of the Environmental Impact Report and
      Project Entitlements to Redevelop the Existing Northgate Mall Property Located at 5800
      Northgate Drive
      Northgate Town Square Project – (5800 Northgate Drive) – Public Hearing to Consider the
      Project, Which Includes an Environmental Impact Report, Entitlement Requests from
                                                                                                      4
  Merlone Geier Partners, LLC for a Rezone from General Commercial District to Planned
  Development Zone, a Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map, a Master Use Permit Inclusive of
  an Affordable Housing Agreement, an Environmental and Design Review Permit, and a
  Master Sign Program to Allow a Comprehensive Redevelopment of the Existing Northgate
  Mall into a Phased Mixed-Use Development
  Recommended Action -
  i.  Adopt a Resolution certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) for the
      Northgate Town Square Project (Attachment 1)
 ii.  Introduce an Ordinance to adopt a Zoning Amendment to establish the Northgate Town
      Square Planned Development (PD) District, approve the Northgate Town Square
      Development Plan, amend the City’s Zoning Map, and rezone the 44.76-acre Northgate Mall
      property from General Commercial to the Northgate PD District and including adoption of
      Findings of Fact, a Statement of Overriding Consideration, and a Mitigation Monitoring and
      Reporting Program (MMRP) for the Northgate Town Square Project (Attachment 2)
iii.  Adopt a Resolution approving the Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map, Master Use Permit
      inclusive of a project wide affordable housing agreement, Environmental and Design Review
      Permit, and Master Sign Program for the Northgate Town Square Project (Attachment 3)

City Manager Cristine Alilovich expressed her appreciation to staff, introduced Community
& Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle who presented the Staff Report along with
Heather Hines (M-Group), Theresa Wallace (LSA Associates), David Parisi (Parametrix),
Public Works Director April Miller, Fire Chief Abraham Roman and Libby Seifel (Seifel
Consulting).

 Mayor Kate called a recess at 7:15 pm and called the meeting back to order at 7:23 p.m.

 Dave Geiser, for Applicant Merlone Geier, provided comments.

 Mayor Kate invited public comment.

 Speakers: Gloria Smith, Responsible Growth Marin, Pam Reaves, Marin Conservation
 League, David Smith, Responsible Growth Marin, Shirley Fischer, Responsible Growth
 Marin, Susan Coleman, Responsible Growth Marin, Phil Hallstein, Responsible Growth
 Marin, Claire Halenbeck, Responsible Growth Marin, Grace Geraghty, Responsible Growth
 Marin, Julie Case, Responsible Growth Marin, Adam Suleman, Sheraton Four Points, Ron
 Brown, Marin Organizing Committee, Victoria Holdridge, Unitarian Universalist
 Congregation Marin, Jeff Bialik, Housing Crisis Action Marin, Marin Organizing Committee,
 Ruth Vosmek, John Reynolds, Matthew Hartzell, WTB-TAM, Marin County Bicycle
 Coalition, Regina Bianucci Rus, League of Women Voters Marin, Bill Carney, Sustainable
 San Rafael, Chris Palomo, Nor Cal Carpenter's Union, Roger Smith, Michele Hassid, San
 Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Eric B., Tim Park, Kate Powers, Marin Conservation League,
 Ray Lorber, Karen Strolia, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Gail Napell, Marin
 Environmental Housing Collaborative, Name Withheld, Jenny Silva, Marin Environmental
 Housing Collaborative, Silre D., Northern California union worker, Name Withheld, Laura
 Silverman, Carlin P., David Carey, Shinji Sakai-Egi

 Mayor Kate called a recess at 9:04 pm and called the meeting back to order at 9:23 p.m.

 Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

 Staff responded to questions from the City Council.
                                                                                              5
Councilmembers provided comments.

The City’s legal counsel read a few clarifications into the record:
The Motion to Adopt a Resolution approving the Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map, Master Use
Permit inclusive of a project wide affordable housing agreement, Environmental and Design
Review Permit, and Master Sign Program for the Northgate Town Square Project (Attachment 3)
was made subject to the following revisions in the City Council packet (additions in
underline, deletions in strikethrough):

1. The Project Wide Below Market Rate Housing Agreement is amended as follows:

•      Section 14. Remove words: “and charge.”

•      Section 16. Release of Parcels. This Agreement is entered into to provide for the
       development of Affordable Housing Units on the six (6) Development Parcels
       containing Affordable Housing Units.

       •       (a) Those portions of the Project not containing the Development Parcels
              shall be released from this Agreement upon the earlier of (i) the recording of
              a final map for said portions of the Project not containing the Development
              Parcels, which map substantially conforms to the Vesting Tentative
              Subdivision Map approved by the City Council in Resolution No. XXXX
              adopted on December 2, 2024 or (ii) the issuance of a building permit for the
              development of any portion of the Project not containing the Development
              Parcels. Such release shall be in the form attached as Exhibit “C” hereto.

       •      (b) A parcel or parcels shall also be released from this Agreement, at such
              time reasonably determined by the City, in the event the Project Approvals (i)
              have expired without having been exercised or vested, and (ii) confer no rights
              to develop the released parcel or parcels. Such release shall be in the form
              attached as Exhibit “C” hereto.

       •      (bc) This Agreement is not intended to affect existing or future non-residential
              operations or development. Until such time(s) that the release described in
              Section 16(a) occurs, upon receipt of a written request from an owner,
              operator, developer or lender regarding an existing or proposed non-
              residential use or development on the Property, the City shall promptly
              provide written confirmation that this Agreement does not apply to said non-
              residential use or portion of the Project Property.

2. The Conditions of Approval are amended as follows:

•      Repeal and Replace existing COA 113 with: No certificates of occupancy for market
       rate residential units, including rental and for-sale townhome or condominium units,
       shall be issued until all certificates of occupancy have been issued for below market
       rate units required for such market rate units. On any of the six Project residential
       development parcels, Applicant shall not be required to provide more than 10% of
       the total number of units as below market rate units, except that the number of
       required below market rate units shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number
       if its calculation would result in a fractional number.


                                                                                            6
•      114. For each townhome or condominium development in the Project, all required
       below market rate townhomes or condominiums shall obtain certificates of
       occupancy prior to the first certificates of occupancy on market rate townhomes or
       condominiums. Applicant shall not be required to provide more than 10% of the total
       number of townhomes or condominiums as below market rate townhomes or
       condominiums.

•      New condition added to the conditions of approval: Within three months of the
       issuance of the final certificate of occupancy for Phase 1 of the project, the applicant
       shall pay all out of pocket costs related to a comprehensive City traffic study that
       studies all intersections and road segments originally studied as a part of the Project
       EIR in order to determine whether such intersections and road segments are
       maintaining LOS D. The study shall be for informational purposes only.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt a resolution
certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) for the Northgate Town Square
Project, with the modifications as read into the record.

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

Resolution 15359 - Resolution certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) for the
Northgate Town Square Project

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to waive further
reading of the Ordinance and refer to it by title only, and introduce the Ordinance.

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

Waived further reading of the Ordinance and referred to it by title only, and introduced the
Ordinance

The City Clerk read the title of the ordinance:
An Ordinance of the San Rafael City Council Approving An Amendment to the City of San
Rafael Zoning Map to Rezone the Northgate Town Square Redevelopment Project Site from
General Commercial (GC) to the Northgate Town Square Planned Development (PD) District
Consistent with San Rafael Municipal Code Chapter 14.07 (Planned Development District)
and Section 14.27.060, Approve the Northgate Town Square PD Development Plan, and
Approve the Northgate Town Square PD Development Standards , Together with Making
CEQA Findings of Fact, Adopting a Statement of Overriding Considerations, and Adopting a
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Project (APNS 175-060-12, 175-060-
40, 175-060-59, 175-060-61, 175-060-66, And 175-060-67)

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt a resolution
approving the Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map, Master Use Permit inclusive of a project
wide affordable housing agreement, Environmental and Design Review Permit, and Master
Sign Program for the Northgate Town Square Project, with the modifications as read into
the record.
                                                                                             7
      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Resolution 15360 - Resolution approving the Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map, Master Use
      Permit inclusive of a project wide affordable housing agreement, Environmental and Design
      Review Permit, and Master Sign Program for the Northgate Town Square Project

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Name Withheld, expressed appreciation for the Library and Northgate development.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:41 p.m.



                                                          __________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             8
