MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2020


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Phillips
                      Vice Mayor Colin
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Gamblin
                      Councilmember McCullough
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Rob Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 889-1633-1168# - 6:00 PM
    1. Mayor Phillips announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 889-1633-1168# - 6:00 PM
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Personnel Matters – Government Code Section 54957
          Public Employee Performance Evaluation – City Manager
                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                    Watch online: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                  ID: 884-8011-5619#

Mayor Phillips called the meeting to order at 7:06 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call
the roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube
and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through
YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation through the telephone
and on YouTube.

City Attorney Rob Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

   City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
        • COVID-19 and the City’s response updates
        • Election Day and information on how and where to vote
        • Expressed thanks to our community and staff for virtual events held in October

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
  • Salamah Locks, Commission on Aging, announced the next Commission on Aging meeting, and
     reminded everyone to vote
  • Leslie address the City Council regarding agenda item 5.d
  • Name withheld, addressed the City Council regarding the vandalized statue at the Mission
     Church

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Phillips invited public comment on the Consent Calendar; however, there was none

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Gamblin seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, October
      19, 2020 (CC)
      Approve minutes as submitted

   b. Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee Appointment


                                                                                            2
       Approve Appointment of Gail Grasso to the Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee
       to the End of July 2022 Due to the Resignation of Pamela Cook (CC)
       Approved Appointment

   c. Agreements for On-Call Planning and Environmental Consultant Services
      i. Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
         Professional Services with MIG, Inc. for On-Call Planning and Environmental Consultant
         Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $100,000 (CD)
         Resolution 14865 – Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
         Agreement for Professional Services with MIG, Inc. for On-Call Planning and
         Environmental Consultant Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $100,000

     ii.   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
           Professional Services with M-Group for On-Call Planning and Environmental Consultant
           Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $100,000 (CD)
           Resolution 14866 – Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
           Agreement for Professional Services with M-Group for On-Call Planning and
           Environmental Consultant Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $100,000

AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
5. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Canal Policy Working Group
      Resolution to Pursue Bold, Collaborative Solutions that Place Equity at the Forefront of Our
      Efforts to Address the Disproportionate Impacts the Covid-19 Pandemic is Having on Our
      Most Marginalized Communities, Local Businesses and Property Owners (CM)

       Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager, presented the staff report along with the Canal
       Policy Working Group, Omar Carrera, Canal Alliance, Chandra Alexandre, Community Action
       Marin, Stephanie Haffner, Legal Aid of Marin, and Supervisor Dennis Rodoni.

       Councilmembers provided comments

       Mayor Phillips invited public comment

       Speakers: Chris Hart, Christina Rosales, Mari, Lisel Blash, John Reynolds, Veronica, Marina
       Palma

       Mayor Phillips called for recess at 7:56 p.m.
       Mayor Phillips called the meeting back in session at 8:03 p.m.

       Speakers continued: San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Alex, Kiki la Porta, Name withheld
                                                                                           3
   Staff responded to public comment and Councilmembers provided comments

   Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to adopt the
   resolution

   AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

   Resolution 14867 – Resolution to Pursue Bold, Collaborative Solutions that Place Equity at the
   Forefront of Our Efforts to Address the Disproportionate Impacts the Covid-19 Pandemic is
   Having on Our Most Marginalized Communities, Local Businesses and Property Owners

b. CDBG-CARES Act Coronavirus Funding Allocation Recommendations
   Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant CARES Act Coronavirus
   (CDBG-CV) Allocation 3A Funding to the Marin County Board of Supervisors for the San
   Rafael Planning Area (CD)

   Ethan Guy, Principal Analyst, presented the staff report

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Speakers: Cecile Gramajo, Marina Palma, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Peter
   Mendoza, Marin Center of Independent Living

   Councilmembers provided comments

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Colin seconded to adopt the resolution

   AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

   Resolution 14868 – Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant CARES
   Act Coronavirus (CDBG-CV) Allocation 3A Funding to the Marin County Board of Supervisors
   for the San Rafael Planning Area

c. Opportunity Zone Renter Relocation Assistance Informational Report
   Informational Report on Renter Relocation Assistance in the Opportunity Zone Located in
   the Canal Neighborhood of San Rafael (CD)

   Ethan Guy, Principal Analyst, presented the staff report

   Mayor Phillips commented and staff responded to questions from Councilmembers

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment
                                                                                          4
   Speakers: John Reynolds, Chris Hart, Marina Palma

   Councilmembers provided comments

   Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to accept the
   report

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Accepted report

   Mayor Phillips called for recess at 9:01 p.m.
   Mayor Phillips called the meeting back in session at 9:06 p.m.

d. Affordable Housing Trust Fund Allocation
   Resolution Approving a Housing Trust Fund Grant to the County of Marin for the Affordable
   Housing Development at 3301 Kerner Boulevard in an Amount Not to Exceed $1,540,000,
   and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Grant Documents and Related Documents
   (CD)

   Andrew Hening, Director of Homeless Planning and Outreach, and Ethan Guy, Principal
   Analyst, presented the staff report and introduced Leelee Thomas, Marin County
   Community Development, who would be available to answer questions

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Speakers: Linda Jackson, Aging Action Initiative, Dawei Wong, Housing Advocates of
   Northern California, Rev. Lynn Oldham Robinett, Marin Interfaith Council, Linda Hallman,
   Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Marin, Joanne Webster, Housing Crisis Action
   Steering Committee, Bob Pendoley, Marin Environmental Housing Collaborative, Margorie
   Delgadillo, Salamah Locks, Marin Commission on Aging, Shannon Griffin, Marin Organizing
   Committee, Peter Mendoza, Marin Center of Independent Living

   Mayor Phillips called for recess at 9:54 p.m.
   Mayor Phillips called the meeting back in session at 10:09 p.m.

   Speakers continued: Catherine, Sami Mericle, Marin Environmental Housing Collaborative,
   Ron Brown, Marin Organizing Committee, Margaret Fisher, Kate Sprague, Name withheld,
   Name Withheld, Nick Morris, Street Chaplaincy Executive Director, Josh Sullivan, Marin
   Organizing Committee & Legal Aid of Marin Supervising Attorney, Karen Strolia, Downtown
   Streets Team, Name withheld, Name withheld, Name withheld, John Reynolds, Name
   withheld, Laura J. Giacomini, Congregation Rodef Sholom and Marin Organizing
                                                                                      5
   Committee, Bill Carney, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Sunny Lee, Lisel Blash, Name
   withheld, Marjorie Dalgadillo, Omar Carrera, Canal Alliance CEO, Mark Kay Sweeney,
   Homeward Bound of Marin

   Councilmembers     provided    comments     and   staff   responded   to   questions       from
   Councilmembers

   Councilmember McCullough moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution subject to review of the appraisal by Mayor Phillips and Councilmember Gamblin,
   and to delegate authority to Mayor Phillips and Councilmember Gamblin to either authorize
   the City Manager to execute necessary documents, or to schedule a special meeting of the
   City Council to meet the schedule imposed by the County of Marin if concerns arise.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      Colin
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Resolution 14869 – Resolution Approving a Housing Trust Fund Grant to the County of Marin
   for the Affordable Housing Development at 3301 Kerner Boulevard in an Amount Not to
   Exceed $1,540,000, and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Grant Documents and
   Related Documents

e. Third Street Improvements
   Informational Report on the Third Street Rehabilitation and Third Street Safety
   Improvements Projects (PW)

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced April Miller, Senior Civil Engineer and Robert
   Stevens, CSW Stuber-Stroeh, who presented the staff report

   Councilmembers provided comments

   Mayor Phillips invited public comment

   Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Lisa Merigian, Sunny Lee, Alan Edmondson,
   Name withheld, Name withheld

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers and Councilmembers provided
   comments.

   Councilmember Colin moved and Councilmember McCullough seconded to accept the
   report

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Colin, Gamblin, McCullough & Mayor Phillips
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None


                                                                                          6
       Accepted report

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
6. Councilmember Reports: -None.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

Mayor Phillips and the City Council adjourned the meeting at 11:20 p.m. in memory of Jerry Belletto
and Tom Untermann.




                                                              ___________________________
                                                              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                 APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2020

                                                       _____________________________________
                                                             GARY O. PHILLIPS, Mayor




                                                                                               7
