                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, JUNE 23, 2025

                            SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:00 P.M. AND 6:00 P.M.
                                San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901


This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:00 P.M.
                                San Rafael Third Floor Conference Room
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CCSP-06-23-2025
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 896-7852-8953#

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:       City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 4:03 p.m. All members of the City Council were present,
    except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.

    Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

    1. Planning Commission Interviews
       Interview Applicants and Make an Appointment to Fill One Four-Year Term Through the End
       of October 2027 on the Planning Commission Due to the Resignation of Danielle O’Leary (CC)

        City Clerk Lindsay Lara presented the staff report, announced withdrawn applications and
        presented options for the City Council to consider.

        The City Council interviewed the following applicants: Susie Berg and Arandu Alvarez. Pooja
        Rawat and Andrew Spiegel withdrew their applications.
   The City Council provided direction to Staff to return with information regarding eligibility
   requirements for the Planning Commission.

   After discussion, Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to appoint
   Arandu Alvarez to the Planning Commission to the end of October 2027.

   AYES:          Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:          Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:        Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

Mayor Kate adjourned to Closed Session at 4:50 p.m.

                             REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                          1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Watch Online:
                   Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-2
                   Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                             Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                   ID: 860-6190-5675#

OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:45 PM
1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:45 PM
2. Closed Session:

   a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL—EXISTING LITIGATION, Government Code
      Section 54956.9(d)(1)
      River Landon, LLC v. Hinkle, et al. U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California,
      Case No. 3:25-cv-04904-LB

   b. CONFERENCE WITH REAL PROPERTY NEGOTIATORS
      Property: 350 Merrydale Road / 3833 Redwood Highway, San Rafael APNs 179-041-27 &
      179-041-28
      Agency negotiator: Cristine Alilovich, City Manager; John Stefanski, Assistant City Manager;
      Daniel Cooperman, Community Services Division Director
      Negotiating parties: Ridgewood Properties, a California General Partnership, as to an
      undivided ½ interest; and Francine M. Clayton, Trustee of The Francine M. Clayton 1996
      Trust, as to an undivided ½ interest
      Under negotiation: Price and Terms of Payment

   c. CONFERENCE WITH REAL PROPERTY NEGOTIATORS
      Property: 620 Canal Street, San Rafael, CA (APN 014-162-01)
      Agency negotiator: Cristine Alilovich, City Manager; Micah Hinkle, Director of Community
      Economic Department; Greg Minor, Assistant Director of Community and Economic
      Development
      Negotiating parties: The Anthony Cavallo Trust
      Under negotiation: Price and Terms of Payment

                                                                                               2
Present:          Vice Mayor Bushey
                  Councilmember Hill
                  Councilmember Kertz
                  Mayor Kate
Absent:           Councilmember Llorens Gulati
Also Present:     City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                  City Attorney Robert Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in Closed Session.

Mayor Kate offered opening remarks acknowledging City Staff, the tragic incident of murder of
Minesota state representative and her husband as well as the Senator and his wife, and a land
acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported/announced:
      • Parks and Recreation month in July
      • Warning against illegal fireworks for the 4th of July
      • San Rafael Fair from July 2-6th starting at 9:30 am
      • Downtown Summer Farmers Market on July 11th from 5-9pm
      • Second Friday Night Art Walk on July 11th from 5-8p on 4th street
      • San Rafael Festival of Arts on July 26th at Falkirk Mansion
      • City Hall summer hours and closure of City Hall on Fridays, available by appointment at
         415-485-3070
      • Summar Recess canceling the City Council meetings of July 7th and August 4th
      • City Hall and administrative facilities closed for the July 4th holiday

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, San Rafael Sanitation
          District, and Montecito Residents Area Association.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on Marin Latinos Luncheon, and Association of Bay Area
          Governments.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on the City of San Rafael Employee Luncheon, and
          Economic Development Subcommittee.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin, and Federation of
          Neighborhoods.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
                                                                                            3
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Llorens Gulati

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of June 2, 2025 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Proclamation
      Proclamation Supporting Parks and Recreation Month (LR)
      Received and filed

   c. Professional Services Agreement for Legal Services
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement in
      an Amount Not to Exceed $600,000 with Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for Legal
      Services (CA)
      Adopted Resolution 15425

   d. Homelessness Services Contracts
      Resolutions Authorizing the City Manager to Amend Contracts with Foege Schuman Global
      Disaster Solutions LLC for Encampment and Debris Removal, in the Amount not to Exceed
      $200,000, for a total not to Exceed Amount Under this Agreement of $350,000; and with
      Foege Schuman Global Disaster Solutions LLC for Sanctioned Camping Area Operations in
      the Amount not to Exceed $675,000 for a Total not to Exceed Amount of $1,350,000, and
      with Defense Block Security for Security Services at the Sanctioned Camping Area in the
      Amount by $750,000 for a Total not to Exceed of Amount of $1,600,000; and Authorizing
      Supplemental Budget Appropriations of $1,425,000 from Available Encampment
      Resolution Fund-Round 3 (ERF3) Grant Funds to Support Amended Contracts (CM)
      Adopted Resolution 15426 and 15427

   e. Extending On-Call Building Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services Agreements
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to:
      1) Amend Professional Services Agreements for On-Call Building Plan Review and
      Inspection Consulting Services to Increase the Total Compensation Amount for Coastland
      Civil Engineering, LLP by $200,000 for a Total Not to Exceed Amount of $400,000 and to
      Increase the Total Compensation Amount for Interwest Consulting Group By $300,000 for
      a Total Not to Exceed Amount of $450,000; and
      2) Authorize Supplemental Fiscal Year 2024-25 Budget Appropriations of $500,000
      (General Fund) Supported Through Increased Permit Fee Revenues (CED)
      Adopted Resolution 15428

   f. Exploring Formation of a Community Land Trust with The County of Marin
      Resolution in Support of Exploring the Formation of a Community Land Trust with The
      County of Marin as a Step Toward Achieving Compliance with the Metropolitan
      Transportation Commission’s (MTC's) Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy (CED)
                                                                                       4
        Adopted Resolution 15429

   g. Ending Grant Agreement with Homeward Bound for 830 B Street Affordable Housing
      Resolution As the Housing Successor to the San Rafael Redevelopment Agency
      Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to Terminate the Grant
      Agreement Between the San Rafael Redevelopment Agency and Homeward Bound of
      Marin Dated May 4, 1998, for the Rehabilitation of 29 Affordable Residential Units at 830
      B St, Contingent Upon a Return of $16,560 in Grant Funds to the Low and Moderate
      Income Housing Fund (CED)
      Adopted Resolution 15430

   h. Loch Lomond 10 - Mello-Roos District No. 1992-1 Special Tax
      Resolution Setting the Special Tax for Community Facilities District No. 1992-1 (Loch
      Lomond #10) for Fiscal Year 2025-26 (CED)
      Adopted Resolution 15431

   i.   The Village at Loch Lomond Marina - Mello-Roos District No. 2
        Resolution Setting the Special Tax for City of San Rafael Community Facilities District No.
        2 (The Village at Loch Lomond Marina) for Fiscal Year 2025-26 (CED)
        Adopted Resolution 15432

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition Louise Yost, Retiring from the Pickleweed
      Advisory Committee

        Mayor Kate presented the Proclamation to Louise Yost, and she provided comments.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items

   a. Public Art Program Implementation Agreement
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement in
      An Amount Not to Exceed $250,000 with Local Edition Marketing, LLC to Implement a
      Public Art Program Funded by a Grant from the California Arts Council for the Downtown
      San Rafael Arts District (CED)

        Councilmember Eli Hill recused himself due to a conflict of interest in that he resides within
        500 ft of the sites identified in the staff report and left the Council Chambers.

        Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle introduced Economic
        Development Program Manager Stacey Laumann who presented the Staff Report.

        Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

        Mayor Kate invited public comment

        Speakers: Morgan Schauffler, Director of External Affairs at Youth in Arts, Carolyn Flannery
                                                                                               5
   Staff responded to questions from the community

   City Councilmembers provided comments.

   Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
   Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement in An Amount
   Not to Exceed $250,000 with Local Edition Marketing, LLC to Implement a Public Art
   Program Funded by a Grant from the California Arts Council for the Downtown San Rafael
   Arts District

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati & Hill

   Adopted Resolution 15433

b. 620 Canal Street Acquisition
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to:
   1. Negotiate and Execute a Grant Agreement, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney,
   with Marin County for a Minimum of $1,150,000 in Measure A Land Preservation and Park
   Access Program Funds (“Measure A Funds”), Accepting and Appropriating Grant Funds;
   2. Negotiate and Enter Into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Ancillary Documents for
   the Property Located at 620 Canal Street, Provided the City’s Contribution to the Purchase
   Price Does Not Exceed $500,000, Plus Said Measure A Funds Received; And
   3. To Take Actions Necessary or Incidental to Carrying out the Intent of this Resolution
   (CED)

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided some comments and introduced Assistant Director
   of Community and Economic Development Greg Minor who presented the Staff Report

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   City Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to adopt the Resolution
   Authorizing the City Manager to:
   1. Negotiate and Execute a Grant Agreement, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney,
   with Marin County for a Minimum of $1,150,000 in Measure A Land Preservation and Park
   Access Program Funds (“Measure A Funds”), Accepting and Appropriating Grant Funds;
   2. Negotiate and Enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Ancillary Documents for
   the Property Located at 620 Canal Street, Provided the City’s Contribution to the Purchase
   Price Does Not Exceed $500,000, Plus Said Measure A Funds Received; And
   3. To Take Actions Necessary or Incidental to Carrying out the Intent of this Resolution

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

   Adopted Resolution 15434
                                                                                      6
PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings

   a. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
      Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment
      District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and
      Collection of Assessments for Fiscal Year 2025-26 (PW)

      Public Works Deputy Director Jonathan Schellin presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
      Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District and
      the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of
      Assessments for Fiscal Year 2025-26

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Adopted Resolution 15435

   b. Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
      Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road
      Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
      Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2025-26 (PW)

      Senior Management Analyst Bernadette Sullivan presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
      Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road Median
      Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and
      Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2025-26

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Adopted Resolution 15436

                                                                                        7
c. Roadside Memorial Policy
   Resolution Approving a Roadside Memorial Policy to Establish Procedures for Handling
   Memorials Placed within City of San Rafael Right-of-Way (PW)

   Senior Management Analyst Bernadette Sullivan presented the staff report

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

   City Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
   Approving a Roadside Memorial Policy to Establish Procedures for Handling Memorials
   Placed within City of San Rafael Right-of-Way

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

   Adopted Resolution 15437

d. Affordable Housing Funding Recommendation
   Resolution Authorizing the Appropriation of $503,000 from the Affordable Housing in-
   Lieu Fee Fund (Fund #243), Including $3,000 in Administrative Costs, for Funding for Three
   One 100 Percent Affordable Housing Projects In Fulfillment of the Affordable Housing
   Trust Fund 2025 Notice of Funding Availability, and Authorizing the City Manager to
   Execute Funding Agreements with Abode Housing Development in an Amount Not to
   Exceed $200,000, Marin Foster Care Association in An Amount Not to Exceed $150,000
   and EAH Housing in an Amount Not to Exceed $150,000 and All Documents Incidental to
   the Funding Agreements (PW)

   Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle provided comments and
   introduced Housing Manager Alexis Captanian and who presented the staff report

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Maryam Lynn of EAH Housing, Carolyn Flannery of Make It Home, Ashley Heard
   of Marin Foster Care, Amanda Milhaul, Leanne Styker of Marin Foster Care, Alexandra,
   Lynda Gregory, Riley, Peggy Dollaghan, Devora, Molly Goecke, Waverly, John White of Boat
   Housing Development.

   Staff/Community responded to questions.

   The City Manager provided options to consider: Reduce current funding recommendation
   to Abode Housing Development to $100k and increase Marin Foster Care Association to
   $250k; OR to keep Abode Housing Development at $200k and raise Marin Foster Care
   Association to $250k.

                                                                                      8
       City Attorney comments

       City Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution, as
       amended, Authorizing the Appropriation of $603,000 from the Affordable Housing in-Lieu
       Fee Fund (Fund #243), Including $3,000 in Administrative Costs, for Funding for Three One
       100 Percent Affordable Housing Projects In Fulfillment of the Affordable Housing Trust
       Fund 2025 Notice of Funding Availability, and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute
       Funding Agreements with Abode Housing Development in an Amount Not to Exceed
       $200,000, Marin Foster Care Association in An Amount Not to Exceed $250,000 and EAH
       Housing in an Amount Not to Exceed $150,000 and All Documents Incidental to the
       Funding Agreements.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Adopted Resolution 15438

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Victoria Dewitt addressed the City Council regarding the closure of City Second Street and
     Marquard Avenue

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:42 p.m. in honor of William ‘Bill’ Bagley.



                                                            __________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                    _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                            9
