                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-03-07
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

   Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
   roll. All members of the City Council were present.

   Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgement, gratitude to City
   Staff and Russia’s attack on Ukraine.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding her California Public Records Act
     (CPRA) request regarding services at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Citywide Parks & Recreation Master Plan Update
    • Joint & District Community Conversations Update
    • Joint Community Conversation to be held on March 17 at 5:30 p.m.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on a walkabout with Mayor Kate, the Canal Lighting
          Project and Marin County Council of Mayors & Councilmembers (MCCMC) Legislative
          Committee and Homeless Committee meetings. She announced an upcoming Marin
          Wildfire Prevention Authority (MWPA) forum on March 10th and a Freitas Parkway
          Roundabout Community meeting on March 9th.
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on San Rafael Sanitation District and MCCMC Water
          Subcommittee meetings.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on Children for Change events, BioMarin Rare Disease Day
          and a West End Neighborhood Association meeting.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the Canal Lighting Project, MCCMC Climate
          Action Committee, Canal Community-Based Transportation Plan, East San Rafael
          Parking Task Force and Canal Community Resilience Council meetings. She announced
          an upcoming Neighborhood Clean-up on April 23rd.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on SMART, Marin Transit and Gun Safety Collaborative meetings.
          She announced an upcoming gun buyback event on June 4th.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:



                                                                                        2
   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Tuesday,
      February 22, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15039 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Amendment to the San Rafael Municipal Code Regarding Recycling of Organic Waste to
      Comply with Senate Bill 1383
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2004: An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code
      to Repeal Chapter 9.19 – Refuse and Recycled Materials Collection and Disposal and
      Replace It with New Chapter 9.19 – Solid Waste Collection and Disposal and Edible Food
      Recovery (CM)
      Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2004

   d. Audit Services
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with
      Maze and Associates to Provide Auditing Services for the Fiscal Years Ending June 30,
      2022 Through June 30, 2025, with Options for the Fiscal Years Ending June 30, 2026 and
      June 30, 2027 (Fin)
      Resolution 15040 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
      Agreement with Maze and Associates to Provide Auditing Services for the Fiscal Years Ending
      June 30, 2022 Through June 30, 2025, with Options for the Fiscal Years Ending June 30, 2026
      and June 30, 2027

   e. Canal Neighborhood Pedestrian Improvements Project
      Accept Completion of the Canal Neighborhood Pedestrian Improvements Project (City
      Project No. 11381), and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted Completion and authorized City Clerk to file Notice of Completion

   f. 999 Third Street – Eden Housing/Vivalon Healthy Aging Center
      Approve Staff Recommendation for Terms of a Below Market Rate (“BMR”) Agreement
      Imposing Affordability Restrictions on the Property Located at 999 Third Street Being
      Developed as the Vivalon Healthy Aging Center (CD)
      Accepted Report approving Staff’s recommendation

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS:
6. Special Presentations:

                                                                                            3
   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Women’s History Month (CC)
      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Lindsay Lara, City Clerk provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

   b. Presentation of Proclamation Recognizing Stephen Mizroch, Retiring from Fire Commission
      (FD)
      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Darin White, Fire Chief provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. 2021 Affordable Housing NOFA Funding Recommendation
      Resolution Authorizing the Expenditure of Funds in Fulfillment of the Affordable Housing
      Trust Fund 2021 Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA), And Supporting the Award of
      Funding from the County of Marin for Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PHLA) Funding
      to Projects Receiving City Funding (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Alexis Captanian, Housing
      Program Analyst presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Tamar, Eden Housing, John Reynolds, Paul Fordham, Homeward Bound, Omar
      Carrera, Canal Alliance, Cory Hiraga, Eden Housing, Eva Chrysanthe, Anne Grey, Vivalon

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15041 - Resolution Authorizing the Expenditure of Funds in Fulfillment of the
      Affordable Housing Trust Fund 2021 Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA), And Supporting the
      Award of Funding from the County of Marin for Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PHLA)
      Funding to Projects Receiving City Funding
                                                                                           4
  b. Cannabis Program – State Regulatory Updates
     Resolution Amending the “Cannabis Business Operator License Program” (CBOL), and
     Restating It in Its Entirety (ED)

     Danielle O’Leary, Director of Economic Development and Innovation presented the Staff
     Report.

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

     Resolution 15042 - Resolution Amending the “Cannabis Business Operator License Program”
     (CBOL), and Restating It in Its Entirety

  c. Interim Financial Update and Budget Amendments to Reflect Operational Activity; Mid-
     Year Personnel Changes
      i. Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Interim Financial Update
     ii. Resolution Adopting Amendments to the 2021-2022 Budget and Approving Mid-Year
         Personnel Changes (Fin)

     Nadine Hade, Administrative Services Director presented the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
     resolution.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

     Resolution 15043 - Resolution Adopting Amendments to the 2021-2022 Budget and Approving
     Mid-Year Personnel Changes

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None


                                                                                       5
ADJOURNMENT:
City Attorney Rob Epstein adjourned the meeting in honor of Judge Richard Breiner.

Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:20 p.m.


                                                         ___________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                          6
