                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-04-04
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll.
All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgement, gratitude to City
Staff, Ramadan and Russia’s attack on Ukraine. She announced the first in-person, hybrid City Council
meeting to be held on April 18 at 7:00 p.m. She expressed a very special thank you to the City Clerk’s
Office and the IT Department for supporting the virtual meetings for the past two years.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Salamah Locks, Marin County Commission on Aging announced their upcoming meeting to
     be held on Thursday, April 7, at 10:00 a.m. Topics to include Voter’s Choice Act in Marin
     County and Housing Element, Housing Programs & Policies, Alternative Housing Options
     for Older Adults.
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding a recent lawsuit filed against the City
     regarding the conditions at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

Assistant City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
   • Free Curbside Chipper Services
   • Defensible Space and Home Hardening Grants
   • Community Conversations Update:
           o Councilmember Hill, District 2, April 21 at San Rafael Community Center at 5:30 p.m.
           o Councilmember Llorens Gulati, District 1, Earth Day Cleanup on April 23 at
               Pickleweed Park at 10:00 a.m.
           o Vice Mayor Kertz, District 4, April 24 at the park in Terra Linda at 4:00 p.m.
           o Councilmember Bushey, District 3, April 27 at Peacock Gap Park at 5:30 p.m.
   • Parks and Recreation Master Plan Update
   • First In-Person, Hybrid City Council meeting, April 18 at 7:00 p.m.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on a Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) “Here
           I Am” event, a MCCMC Homeless Committee meeting, the Marin Economic Forum’s
           “Forecasting the Future” event and the Terra Linda Wellness Center Grand Opening.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on a Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) “Here I
           Am” event and a MCCMC Ad Hoc Water Policy Committee meeting. He also took part
           in conducting interviews of finalists to assist the City in conducting its first Equity Audit.
       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on the County’s proposal to close an eastbound lane
           on Pt. San Pedro Road.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Voces del Canal & Dominican University
           lighting meeting and a MCCMC for Climate Action Committee meeting. She announced
           her Earth Day Cleanup on April 23.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on a Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) “Here I Am”
           event, as well as, Marin Transit, Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) and SMART
           meetings.
                                                                                                  2
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Ken King, Salamah Locks

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Lori Schifrin

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, March
      21, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15050 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Approval for Special Event Street Closures in San Rafael
      Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for Special Events
      for Calendar Year 2022 (PD)
      Resolution 15051 - Resolution Authorizing the Temporary Closure of Streets in San Rafael for
      Special Events for Calendar Year 2022

   d. Bellam Boulevard Traffic Signal Upgrades
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Sign Purchase Orders and/or Agreements with
      Miovision and DC Electric Group for Traffic Signal Upgrades on Bellam Boulevard at:
      Andersen Drive, I-580 Ramps, Francisco Boulevard East, and Kerner Boulevard (PW)
      Resolution 15052 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Sign Purchase Orders and/or
      Agreements with Miovision and DC Electric Group for Traffic Signal Upgrades on Bellam
      Boulevard at: Andersen Drive, I-580 Ramps, Francisco Boulevard East, and Kerner Boulevard

   e. Temporary Street Closure to Support an Open House for the Canal Community Based
      Transportation Plan
      Resolution Authorizing Alto Street Closure on Saturday, April 23, 2022 to Support a Canal
      Community Based Transportation Plan Open House (PW)
      Resolution 15053 - Resolution Authorizing Alto Street Closure on Saturday, April 23, 2022 to
      Support a Canal Community Based Transportation Plan Open House

                                                                                            3
   f. Southern Heights Bridge Replacement Project
      Accept Completion of the Southern Heights Bridge Replacement Project, City Project No.
      11282, and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted completion and authorized the City Clerk to file the Notice of Completion

AYES:   Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:       None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Celebrate Diversity Month (HR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Nadine Hade, Administration Services Director provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Salamah Locks

   b. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting National Library Week (LR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Jill Tokutomi and Katie Port, Supervising Librarians provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Amy Likover

   c. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Month of the Young Child (LR)

      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Catherine Quffa, Assistant Library & Recreation Director provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Linda Cerutti-Panico

      Trisha Cerutti-Saylors, Childcare Director provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. Paramedic Tax Rate for Fiscal Year 2022-23

                                                                                      4
      Consideration of An Ordinance Amending the Paramedic Service Special Tax Rates within
      the Voter-Approved Limit, Commencing with Fiscal Year 2022-2023, for Improved
      Residential and Non-Residential Properties in the City of San Rafael, County Service Area
      No. 13, County Service Area No. 19, and the Marinwood Community Services District (FD)

      Thomas Wong, Senior Management Analyst (Fire Department) presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass
      Ordinance No. 2005 to print.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Passed to Print Ordinance No. 2005 Amending the Paramedic Service Special Tax Rates within
      the Voter-Approved Limit, Commencing with Fiscal Year 2022-2023, for Improved Residential
      and Non-Residential Properties in the City of San Rafael, County Service Area No. 13, County
      Service Area No. 19, and the Marinwood Community Services District

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Rafael 2023-2031 Housing Element
      Progress Report on the 2023-2031 Housing Element (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Barry Miller, Housing Element
      Project Manager who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Ray Lorber, Catalysts for Local Control, Ken, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None
                                                                                            5
      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:44 p.m.


                                                      ___________________________
                                                        LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                        6
