                                              MINUTES
                       SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2020



                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:           Mayor Kate
                       Councilmember Bushey
                       Councilmember Kertz
                       Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:            None
    Also Present:      City Manager Jim Schutz
                       City Attorney Rob Epstein
                       City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128, ID: 848-5230-7272# - 4:00 P.M.
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION - (669) 900-9128, ID: 848-5230-7272# - 4:00 P.M.
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference Public Employment Pursuant to Government Code section 54957(b)(1)
           Title: Chief of Police

                                 REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2020-12-21
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                        ID: 899-2635-9885#
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgement and gratitude to
City staff.

City Attorney Rob Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube
and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through
YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation through the telephone
and on YouTube.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 7:00 PM
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Lorenzo Cordova provided in Spanish how members of the public can provide public comment.

Correspondence in real-time through YouTube, Zoom or telephone
   • Beverly Pinto, Lisa Leavitt, Patti Breitman, Gail Dorph, Rhea Brown, Theresa Ward, Reyes Lake,
   Omar Carrera, Marina Palma, Ella Furuichi, Laura Huerta, Darlin Ruiz, Clare McCamy, Rommel
   Carrera, Caro Grama addressed the City Council regarding ongoing economic hardships for
   residents during the COVID-19 pandemic
   • Barry Taranto addressed the City Council regarding the new Public Safety Center and fire
   stations, the Police Department, the new two-way streets on C and D Streets, District 4
   Councilmember Kertz and the proposed Terra Linda Costco
   • Lisa Merigian addressed the City Council in opposition to the proposed permanent closure
   of the 3rd and Lindaro Exit/Entrance to the public parking lot adjacent to Walgreens

Mayor Kate expressed her appreciation for these comments and thanked the Marin Organizing
Committee, Children for Change, Voces Del Canal, Canal Alliance, Legal Aid of Marin, Community
Action of Marin and County of Marin.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 and the City’s response updates
    • Open City Council seat vacancy
    • Holiday City office closures from December 24 through January 1 – Police and Fire will
       remain open
    • Next City Council meeting will be on Tuesday, January 19
    • Nomination period for the 2021 Citizen of the Year

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS / REQUESTS FOR FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
                                                                                            2
4. Councilmember Reports:

Councilmember Kertz requested a future agenda item related to the upcoming rental and eviction
impacts occurring at the end of January.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment on the Consent Calendar.

Speaker: John Reynolds

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular and Special Meetings of
      Monday, December 7, 2020 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Ground Lease at 855 C Street
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Fourth
      Amendment to the Amended and Restated Ground Lease and a Promissory Note in
      an Amount Not to Exceed $650,000 with Centertown II, LLC for the Real Property
      Located at 855 C Street in the City of San Rafael (CD)
      Resolution 14881 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Ground Lease and a Promissory Note in an
      Amount Not to Exceed $650,000 with Centertown II, LLC for the Real Property Located at 855
      C Street in the City of San Rafael

   c. Transaction and Use Tax Agreements
      i. Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute Two Agreements
         with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA) for
         Implementation of the City's Transactions and Use Tax (Fin)
         Resolution 14882 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute Two
         Agreements with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA) for
         Implementation of the City's Transactions and Use Tax

     ii.   Resolution Authorizing Examination of Sales and Use Tax and Transactions and
           Use Tax Records (Fin)
           Resolution 14883 - Resolution Authorizing Examination of Sales and Use Tax and
           Transactions and Use Tax Records

   d. Annual Measure E TUT Oversight Committee Report
      Measure E Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee Report for Fiscal Year 2019-
      2020 (Fin)
                                                                                         3
      Accepted report

   e. Special Library Parcel Tax Annual Report
      Special Library Parcel Tax Committee’s Annual Measure D Report (Fin)
      Accepted report

   f. FY 2020-21 Fleet Vehicle Purchases: Police Department
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Five Fleet Vehicles for the Police
      Department for an Amount Not to Exceed $325,000 (PW)
      Resolution 14884 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Five Fleet Vehicles
      for the Police Department for an Amount Not to Exceed $325,000

   g. Third Street at Hetherton Street Improvements Notice of Completion
      Accept Completion of the Third Street at Hetherton Street Improvements Project (City
      Project No. 11320), and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Approved staff recommendation

   h. Traffic Mitigation Fees
      Annual Traffic Mitigation Fee Report – FY 2019-20 (PW)
      Accepted report

AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Amendments to the San Rafael Municipal Code to Streamline Housing Development
      Continued to a date uncertain

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Homelessness
      Informational Report on Status of Homelessness in San Rafael (CM)

      Andrew Hening, Director of Homeless Planning and Outreach presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

      Cheryl Chambers, Caltrans provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Lucie Hollingsworth, Legal Aid of Marin and Marin Organizing Committee, Barry
                                                                                         4
   Taranto, Pat Langley, Marin Organizing Committee, Karen Strolia, Downtown Streets Team,
   Paula Doubleday, Downtown Streets Team, Nick Morris, The Street Chaplaincy, Betsy
   Guthrie, Downtown Streets Team, John Reynolds, Sunny Lee, John Reynolds

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Accepted report

b. Response to the Grand Jury Report on Firearm Safety
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the
   2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “The Gun Next Door:
   Firearm Safety in Marin County” (PD)

   Roy Leon, Acting Police Captain presented the staff report.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   resolution

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Resolution 14885 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response
   to the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “The Gun Next Door: Firearm
   Safety in Marin County”

c. 2021 Vice-Mayor
   Select Vice-Mayor for the City of San Rafael 2021 (CC)

   Mayor Kate introduced this item.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.
                                                                                      5
      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to select
      Maribeth Bushey as Vice-Mayor for 2021

      AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:     None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

      Selected Maribeth Bushy as Vice-Mayor for 2021

   d. City Council Appointments to Committees
      Approve City Council Appointments to Committees 2021 (CC)

      Mayor Kate introduced this item.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve
      the appointments, subject to the understanding that the Council will review this when the
      new Councilmember is appointed in January

      AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:     None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

      Approved Appointments

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:


Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:29 p.m.


                                                           ___________________________
                                                              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                       _____________________________________
                                                                KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                               6
