                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 2023

                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                              In-Person:
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                       Participate Virtually:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2023-06-20
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 860-6190-5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

This meeting will be held in-person. The public may attend in-person or participate virtually using Zoom.
This meeting is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:
  • Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
      city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
  • Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
  • Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and press *9 to raise your hand, and *6
      to unmute yourself, then provide verbal public comment.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM - 5:15 PM
    Dial-in: (669) 900-9128, Meeting ID# 842-5807-1060#

    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM - 5:15 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. Conference with Labor Negotiators – Government Code Section 54957.6 (a)
           Lead Negotiator: Timothy L. Davis (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
           Agency Designated Representatives: Cristine Alilovich, Marissa Sanchez, Angela Nicholson
           Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare

        b. Conference with Legal Counsel--Existing Litigation
           Government Code section 54956.9 – 1 case
           Name of case: Kristen Miller vs. City of San Rafael
           Marin County Superior Court Case Number CIV 2201502

 Present:       Councilmember Bushey
                Councilmember Hill
                Councilmember Kertz
                Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati
              Mayor Kate
Absent:       None
Also Present: City Manager Cristine Alilovich
              City Attorney Robert Epstein
              City Clerk Lindsay Lara

   Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
   roll. All members of the City Council were present.

   City Attorney Rob Epstein announced there was no reportable action in Closed Session.

   Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included appreciation to City staff, and an
   explanation for why we start each meeting with a land acknowledgement. Also, she included a
   land acknowledgment.

   City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be
   recorded and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would
   provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for
   community participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

   OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
     • Larry Andow addressed the City Council regarding Peacock Gap Park.
     • Tylee Holden addressed the City Council regarding the development project in Dominican
        neighborhood.
     • Chris Catchpool addressed the City Council regarding the development project in Dominican
        neighborhood.
     • JP Guitard addressed the City Council regarding the development project in Dominican
        neighborhood.
     • Name withheld addressed the City Council regarding the development project in Dominican
        neighborhood.

   Cristine Alilovich, City Manager and Ali Giudice, Community Development Director provided
   comments on the development project in Dominican neighborhood.

   CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
   (including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
   3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

      City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
          • Sun Valley Park reopened last week; Celebration and ribbon-cutting to be held on
            Wednesday, July 12th at 3:30 p.m.
          • Police Advisory and Accountability Committee (PAAC) established at last City Council
            Meeting; Staff is creating a community engagement plan and applications available on-
            line on Friday, June 30th.
          • Sea Level Rise Adaptation Planning Project Update

       City Councilmember Reports:
           • Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati attended the ground-breaking celebration for 3301 Kerner
              Blvd. and a Voces del Canal meeting on policing.
           • Councilmember Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation District Board meeting,
              where they adopted a budget for the next two fiscal years.

                                                                                               2
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on the Las Gallinas Sanitary District ribbon-cutting
          event, a Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) Homeless
          Committee meeting and a Juneteenth celebration in Marin City. She expressed thanks
          to Public Works for the Terra Linda Splash Pad on Montecillo Road at the park.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on an Economic Development Subcommittee meeting, an
          MCCMC Ad Hoc Green Microgrid Policy Makers Committee meeting and an
          Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) General Assembly.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on a Transportation Authority of Marin Administration and
          Project Committee meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Name withheld

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the
Consent Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of June 5, 2023 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Downtown Streets, Inc. Agreement
      Authorize the City Manager to Execute Agreement with Downtown Streets, Inc. Not to
      Exceed $200,000 Per Fiscal Year for Implementation and Management of a Volunteer
      Program Serving Individuals Experiencing Homelessness (CD)
      Approved Authorization to City Manager to Execute Agreement

   c. Proclamation Designating of July 2023 as Park & Recreation Month
      Proclamation Designating of July 2023 as Park & Recreation Month (LR)
      Received and Filed

   d. Crime Analyst Services
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for Crime Analysis
      Services with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., in an Amount Not to Exceed $149,609, and
      Appropriating this Amount from the Safety Grant Fund to Support the Agreement (PD)
      Resolution 15226 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
      Crime Analysis Services with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $149,609, and Appropriating this Amount from the Safety Grant Fund to Support the
      Agreement

   e. FY 2023-24 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) Projects, Funded by
      Senate Bill 1:
      Resolution Adopting a List of Projects for Fiscal Year 2023-24 Funded by Senate Bill 1:
      The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 (PW)
      Resolution 15227 - Resolution Adopting a List of Projects for Fiscal Year 2023-24 Funded by
      Senate Bill 1: The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017
                                                                                          3
   f. Fleet Vehicle Purchases
      Authorize the City Manager to Increase the Approved Purchase Price for Eleven City
      Vehicles (PW)
      Authorized the City Manager to increase the approved purchase price by $144, 221 for eleven
      City vehicles

   g. FY 2022-23 City of San Rafael Canal Maintenance Dredging Project Notice of
      Completion
      Accept Completion of the FY 2022-23 City of San Rafael Canal Maintenance Dredging
      Project (City Project No. 11423), and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of
      Completion (PW)
      Accepted Completion and directed the City Clerk to file the NOC

   h. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
      Baypoint Lagoons Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District Annual Assessment
      FY2023-24 (PW)
         i. Resolution Directing Filing of Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24
        ii. Resolution Approving Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24
       iii. Resolution of Intention to Order Improvements and Setting a Public Hearing on
            the Annual Assessment for the City Council Meeting of July 17, 2023

        Resolution 15228 - Resolution Directing Filing of Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24

        Resolution 15229 - Resolution Approving Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24

        Resolution 15230 - Resolution of Intention to Order Improvements and Setting a Public Hearing
        on the Annual Assessment for the City Council Meeting of July 17, 2023

   i.   Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
        Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District Annual Assessment FY
        2023-24 (PW)
           i.  Resolution Directing Filing of Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24
          ii.  Resolution Approving Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24
         iii.  Resolution of Intention to Order Improvements and Setting a Public Hearing on
               the Annual Assessment for the City Council Meeting of July 17, 2023

        Resolution 15231 - Resolution Directing Filing of Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24

        Resolution 15232 - Resolution Approving Engineer's Annual Report FY 2023-24

        Resolution 15233 - Resolution of Intention to Order Improvements and Setting a Public Hearing
        on the Annual Assessment for the City Council Meeting of July 17, 2023

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS:
5. Special Presentations:

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.
                                                                                                4
   a. Proclamation Appreciating Larry Paul, Retired Design Review Board Member (CD)
      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation to Larry Paul, and Larry Paul made comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Commercial Linkage Fees
      Informational Report on Regional Nexus Study of Commercial Linkage Fees (CD)

      Alexis Captanian, Housing Programs Analyst presented the staff report.

      Staff, including Jake Cummings, Consultant and Megan Burke, Outside Counsel responded
      to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate opened the public hearing.

      Speakers: Al Vetere, Name withheld

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

   b. Canal Street Underground Utility District
      Resolution to Designate an Underground Utility District on Canal Street Between
      Medway Road and Spinnaker Point Drive (PW)

      Joanna Kwok, Senior Civil Engineer presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate opened the public hearing.

      Speakers: Alynn Moody, Al Vetere, Sam Ferguson, Johnson Reynolds

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.




                                                                                         5
       AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Resolution 15234 - Resolution to Designate an Underground Utility District on Canal Street
      Between Medway Road and Spinnaker Point Drive

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:42 p.m.

                                                        ___________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2023

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                          6
