                                                  AGENDA
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2024

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                      Watch on Zoom Webinar: http://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-02-05
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                  Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                        ID: 844-3204-9611#
                          One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,84432049611#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 5:00 PM
    2. Closed Session:

        a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL—ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
           Initiation of litigation (Paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section
           54956.9): 1 potential case

        b. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL–EXISTING LITIGATION
           Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9: 1 case
           Shaleeta Boyd, et al. v. City of San Rafael, et al. (U.S. District Court, N.D. Cal., Case No. 23-
           cv-04085-EMC)

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Rob Epstein announced there was no reportable action in the Closed Session held
prior to the regular meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City staff, especially to the
Public Works, Police and Fire Departments for their work during the storms. Also, she included a
land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation for the evening. She
informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded and streamed live to
YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public comment and closed
captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
       • Gratitude to Public Works staff and First Responders for their work during the storms
       • Police Advisory and Accountability Committee Bylaws Update
       • Mayor Kate selected as 1 of 8 mayors nationwide to be a part of the Just City Mayoral
         Fellowship through the Mayors’ Institute on City Design
       • King Tide Event to be held Saturday, February 10 at the Al Boro Community Center at
         9 a.m.
       • 2nd Annual FeBREWary in downtown San Rafael

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Hill attended a Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers
          (MCCMC) meeting where he heard reports from the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway &
          Transportation District. Also, he attended the Ritter Center ground-breaking
          celebration.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the quarterly Climate Change Action Plan
          (CCAP) forum hosted by Marin Academy. Also, she noted the upcoming King Tide event.
       • Councilmember Kertz participated in the Point-in-Time Count, provided opening
          remarks at a forum to recognize the International Holocaust Memorial Day. She
          attended a Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority board meeting, a First 5 Marin County
          Childrens Summit and the Ritter Center celebration.
       • Councilmember Bushey worked with the Peacock Gap Homeowners Association to
          resolve a landscaping issue, met with the United Market CEO and met with the owners
          of Marin Roofing. She attended a MCCMC quarterly County Water Managers meeting,
          and a Marin Transit meeting.
       • Mayor Kate attended a Sonoma Marin Area Rapid Transit (SMART) meeting, the Ritter
          Center celebration, the Ranch Water ribbon-cutting, a Transportation Authority of
          Marin (TAM) Safe Routes to Schools meeting, a meeting with Laurel Dell second graders,
          a Gun Safety Collaborative and the swear-in ceremony for Senator Mike McGuire.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Name withheld
                                                                                            2
CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the
Consent Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special and Regular City Council Meetings of January 16, 2024
      (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. San Rafael Residential Parking Permit Program
      Authorize the City Manager to Negotiate and Enter into a Professional Services Agreement
      with Dixon Resources Unlimited for the Development of a Residential Parking Permit
      Program in the Amount Not to Exceed $150,000 with the Authority to Amend this
      Agreement up to an Additional $75,000 for Additional Phases of Work and Appropriate
      $225,000 to the Parking Division’s Fiscal Year 2023-24 Contractual Services Budget (CM)
      Authorized City Manager to execute agreement, with the authority to amend this agreement up
      to an additional $75,000 for additional phases of work and appropriate $225,000 to the Parking
      Division’s Fiscal Year 2023-24 Contractual Services Budget

   c. Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District Advisory Board Appointments
      Resolution Appointing Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory Board
      Members (ED)
      Resolution 15271 - Resolution Appointing Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory
      Board Members

   d. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2023 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   e. California Department of Fish and Wildlife Oil Response Trailer Grant
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Funding Agreement with the
      California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) and Designating a Representative for
      the Oil Response Trailer Project and Appropriating Funding for the Project (FD)
      Resolution 15272 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Funding Agreement
      with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) and Designating a Representative for
      the Oil Response Trailer Project and Appropriating Funding for the Project

   f. Report On Calendar Year (CY) 2023 Fire Prevention Inspections of Certain Occupancies
      Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of a Report Made by the Fire Chief Regarding the 2023
      Annual Fire Prevention Inspection of Certain Occupancies Pursuant to Sections 13146.2
      and 13146.3 of the California Health and Safety Code (FD)
      Resolution 15273 - Resolution Acknowledging Receipt of a Report Made by the Fire Chief
      Regarding the 2023 Annual Fire Prevention Inspection of Certain Occupancies Pursuant to
      Sections 13146.2 and 13146.3 of the California Health and Safety Code


                                                                                              3
   g. Replacement of Structural Firefighting Turnouts
      Authorize the City Manager to Purchase Twenty-Six Sets of Structural Firefighting
      Turnouts from Allstar Fire Equipment Inc., in an Amount Not to Exceed $123,511 (FD)
      Authorized the City Manager to purchase twenty-six sets of structural firefighting turnouts from
      Allstar Fire Equipment Inc., in an amount not to exceed $123,511

   h. Crosswalk Funding Agreements
      Resolutions Related to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) Funding
      Agreements (PW)
        i.  Resolution Accepting and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Funding
            Agreement with MTC for $38,000 in TDA Funds for the Crosswalk Safety
            Improvement Project
            Resolution 15274 - Resolution Accepting and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into
            a Funding Agreement with MTC for $38,000 in TDA Funds for the Crosswalk Safety
            Improvement Project

        ii.   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Funding
              Agreement with MTC for $25,000 in TDA Funds for the Francisco Boulevard East
              Mid-Block Crossing Enhancement Project
              Resolution 15275 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into
              a Funding Agreement with MTC for $25,000 in TDA Funds for the Francisco Boulevard
              East Mid-Block Crossing Enhancement Project

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations:

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Proclamation Supporting Black History Month (HR)

      Mayor Kate presented the Proclamation.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Gender-Neutral Language Amendments to Municipal Code
      Introduction of an Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code in its Entirety to
      Replace Gender-Specific Language with Gender-Neutral Language (CC)

      City Clerk Lindsay Lara presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

                                                                                               4
      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to introduce an
      Ordinance amending the San Rafael Municipal Code in its entirety to replace gender-specific
      language with gender-neutral language, waive further reading of the ordinance, and refer to
      it by title only.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      The City Clerk read the title of the ordinance:
      An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code in its Entirety
      to Replace Gender-Specific Language with Gender-Neutral Language

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Police Advisory and Accountability Committee Bylaws
      Resolution Establishing the Bylaws for the Police Advisory and Accountability Committee
      (PD)

      Angela Robinson-Piñon, Assistant City Manager, presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Paula Kamena, Salamah Locks, Stephen Bingham, Gabriel Garcia, Name Withheld

      Staff responded to questions from the community.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      Resolution 15276 - Resolution Establishing the Bylaws for the Police Advisory and Accountability
      Committee

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Anabel, Voces del Canal, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
  • Lucie Hollingsworth, Legal Aid of Marin, addressed the City Council regarding renter
     protections.
  • Ethan Stroll, Legal Aid of Marin, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
  • Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
  • Marina Palma addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
  • Glendy Barrios addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
  • Aurelia Vargas, Voces de Canal, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
                                                                                               5
   •   Elsie Mejia addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Cruz Vargas, Voces de Canal, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Estela Veliz addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Zoila Rios, Voces del Canal, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Diana Benitez, Canal Alliance, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Carol Underwood addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Omar Carrera, Canal Alliance, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Luis Martinez addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Irene De Leon, Voces de Canal, addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Tawny addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.
   •   Kris Parra addressed the City Council regarding renter protections.

Mayor Kate invited City Manager Cristine Alilovich to provide contact information to the City’s
Code Enforcement Division.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar:

Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Hill moved and Member Bushey seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2023 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Members:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Members:         None
ABSENT: Members:         None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:24 p.m.



                                                           ___________________________
                                                              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                              APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                                 6
