                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2021


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Rob Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                               CLOSED SESSION AT 5:30 P.M.
                    Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/SPCC-2021-02-16
                              Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                     ID: 831-3623-3485#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
           Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
           Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
       Carmen Valdez and Sylvia Gonzalez
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2021-02-16
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128,
                                  ID: 899-2635-9885#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the announcement of the new police chief,
David Spiller and a thank you to Interim Police Chief David Starnes. She spoke on the housing and
public art items on tonight’s agenda. In addition, she included a land acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be streamed live to
YouTube and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or
through Zoom or YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation on
the telephone, Zoom and YouTube.

Assistant City Attorney Lisa Goldfien announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed
Session held prior to the meeting.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Business economic recovery update
    • Homeless encampment update

Andrew Henning, Director of Homeless Planning and Outreach gave a homeless encampment
update.

David Starnes, Interim Police Chief gave a bike theft update.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:


                                                                                            2
   •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a Central Marin Sanitation Agency (CMSA) meeting, a
       library subcommittee meeting regarding a conceptual proposal for a combined
       library/community center and a meeting with the Point San Pedro Road Coalition.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on meetings with Marin Transit and SMART.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular and Special Meetings of
      Monday, February 1, 2021 and Special Meeting of Tuesday, January 26, 2021 (CC)
      Approve minutes as submitted

   b. Chief of Police Employment Agreement
      Resolution Authorizing the Mayor and City Manager to Execute An Employment
      Agreement with David Spiller to Serve As the City of San Rafael Chief of Police (CM)
      Resolution 14889 - Resolution Authorizing the Mayor and City Manager to Execute An
      Employment Agreement with David Spiller to Serve As the City of San Rafael Chief of Police

   c. Amendment of the Current Vegetation Management Ordinance
      Second Reading and Final Adoption of Ordinance 1988: An Ordinance Amending
      Sections 4.12.010 and 4.12.030 of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Establish Citywide
      Vegetation Management and Wildfire Mitigation Standards to Help Reduce the Risk
      of a Catastrophic Wildfire (FD)
      Adopted Ordinance No. 1988 – An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael
      Amending Sections 4.12.010 and 4.12.030 of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Establish
      Citywide Vegetation Management and Wildfire Mitigation Standards to Help Reduce the Risk
      of a Catastrophic Wildfire

   d. Regulation of On-Street Parking on Narrow Streets
      Second Reading and Final Adoption of Ordinance 1989: An Ordinance Amending San
      Rafael Municipal Code Section 5.40.080 Regulating Parking on Narrow, Hilly City
      Streets (FD)
      Adopted Ordinance No. 1989 – An Ordinance of the Council of the City of San Rafael
      Amending San Rafael Municipal Code Section 5.40.080 Regulating Parking on Narrow, Hilly
      City Streets

AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

                                                                                         3
PUBLIC HEARINGS:
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Housing Development Policies and Permitting
      i. First Introduction of An Ordinance: Consideration of An Ordinance Amending Title
         14 of the San Rafael Municipal Code (Zoning) to Amend Section 14.04.040
         (Property Development Standards (DR, MR, HR)), Section 14.05.030 (Property
         Development Standards (GC, NC, O, C/O, R/O, FBWC)), Section 14.12.040
         (Exceptions to Property Development Standards), Section 14.16.030 (Affordable
         Housing), Section 14.16.190 (Height Bonus), Section 14.16.300 (Small Lots), and
         Section 14.28.040 (Public Notice And Hearing) (CD)

      Paul Jensen, Community Development Director, Ali Giudice, Planning Manager and Ethan
      Guy, Principal Analyst presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Bob Pendoley, Marin Environmental Housing Collaborative (MEHC), David Wain
      Coon, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Diane Henderson-Glischinski, San Rafael Chamber
      of Commerce, Brad Rogerson, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Bill Carney, Sustainable
      San Rafael, Tom Monohan, Victoria DeWitt, Susan Bradford, Roger Smith, Lynn Robinson,
      Kate Powers

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

      Councilmembers and staff discussed how to modify the language of the Ordinance.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass the
      Ordinance to print, removing the proposed amendment “Section 14.12.040 (Exceptions to
      Property Development Standards)”

      AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:     Kertz
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

      Passed Ordinance No. 1990 to print

      ii.   Resolution Adopting “Guidelines for the Administration of the Affordable
            Housing Requirement Program”

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution
                                                                                        4
  AYES:       Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:       Councilmembers:     Kertz
  ABSENT:     Councilmembers:     None

  Resolution 14890 - Resolution Adopting “Guidelines for the Administration of the Affordable
  Housing Requirement Program”

  iii.   Resolution Adopting Density Bonus and Incentives Regulations Applicable to
         Housing Development Projects that Qualify for a Density Bonus as Set Forth in
         San Rafael Municipal Code Section 14.16.030

  Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution

  AYES:       Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:       Councilmembers:     Kertz
  ABSENT:     Councilmembers:     None

  Resolution 14891 - Resolution Adopting Density Bonus and Incentives Regulations Applicable
  to Housing Development Projects that Qualify for a Density Bonus as Set Forth in San Rafael
  Municipal Code Section 14.16.030

b. Public Art Projects
   i. Informational Report Providing an Update Regarding Public Art Projects in Terra
      Linda and Canal Neighborhoods (CD)

   Thomas Wong, Analyst and Ali Giudice, Planning Manager and presented the staff report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Meg Reilly, Marin Society of Artists, Kim Keith-Brown, Terra Linda Homeowners’
   Association, Lorenzo Jones, Shirley Fischer, Susan Coleman

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
   report

   AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:     None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

  Accepted report
                                                                                      5
     ii.   First Introduction of An Ordinance: Consideration of An Ordinance of the City
           Council of the City of San Rafael Amending San Rafael Municipal Code (SRMC)
           Section 14.25.040 Exempting from Environmental and Design Review Any Public
           Art Projects that Undergo Review Through a Separate Review Process Established
           by the City for that Purpose

       Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass the
       Ordinance to print

       AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
       ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

     Passed Ordinance No. 1991 to print

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Grand Jury Report on Roadblocks to Safe Evacuations in Marin
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response to the
      2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Roadblocks to Safer
      Evacuation In Marin” (FD)

       Darin White, Fire Chief presented the staff report.

       Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

       Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

       Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution

       AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
       ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

     Resolution 14892 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Response
     to the 2019-2020 Marin County Civil Grand Jury Report Entitled “Roadblocks to Safer
     Evacuation In Marin”

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None




                                                                                           6
ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:59 p.m.

                                                          ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                      _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                              7
