                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2025

                            SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:30 P.M. AND 6:00 P.M.
                                San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901


This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:30 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Third Floor Conference Room
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                        Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/ccsm-2025-10-20
                                  Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                        ID: 880-1025-7801#

        Present:               Vice Mayor Bushey
                               Councilmember Hill
                               Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                               Councilmember Kertz
                               Mayor Kate
        Absent:                None
        Also Present:          City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                               City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.

    SPECIAL MEETING
    1. Special Meeting:

        Mayor Kate invited public comment.

        Speaker: Paula Kamena

        a. Board, Commission and Committee Interviews
           Interview Applicants and Make Appointments to the Police Advisory and Accountability
           Committee and the Planning Commission (Districts 1 and 4) to the End of October 2029
           (CC)
       The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Police Advisory and
       Accountability Committee: Daniel Alm, Douglas Sides, Fatai Tokolahi, Jason Sarris and
       Kennedy Rodas.

       Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint
       Daniel Alm and Fatai Tokolahi, and to appoint Kennedy Rodas as Youth Member, to the
       Police Advisory and Accountability Committee to the end of October 2029.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

       The City Council interviewed the following applicants for the Planning Commission: Jill
       Rodby and Jack Salvemini.

       Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to reappoint Jill Rodby as
       the District 1 Representative and to appoint Jack Salvemini as the District 4 Representative
       on the Planning Commission to the end of October 2029.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 5:44 p.m.

                             REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                          1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                     Watch Online:
                  Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-2
                  Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                            Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                  ID: 860-6190-5675#

Present:          Vice Mayor Bushey
                  Councilmember Hill
                  Councilmember Kertz
                  Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                  Mayor Kate
Absent:           None
Also Present:     City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                  Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll.

Chief Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara announced that no reportable action was
taken in Closed Session following the adjournment of the City Council meeting from October 6,
2025.
                                                                                            2
Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City Staff, an announcement
of the Finance and ERP team named as Team of the Quarter for the 2nd Quarter, gratitude to
residents who apply to Boards, Commissions and Committees, the sudden passing of Novato
Councilmember Mark Milberg, and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that there would be Spanish language interpreting
available for agenda item 7.b. She announced the in-person meeting would be recorded and
streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public comment
and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN SESSION
2. None

CLOSED SESSION
3. Closed Session: - None.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided the following announcements and updates:
       • 350 Merrydale Road Interim Shelter Program Joint Press Conference with the County
       • Homelessness & Housing Subcommittee meeting to be held October 21 at City Hall, 11
         a.m.
       • United Against Hate Week
       • What Works Cities Certification
       • Public Art Program Launch
       • Quarterly Climate Action Forum to be held October 23 at City Hall, 5-7 p.m.
       • Treat Walk at B Street Community Center to be held October 23, 4-6 p.m.
       • Movies in the Park to be held October 24 at Terra Linday Park, 7:15 p.m.
       • Trick-Or-Treat on Fourth Street hosted by the Downtown BID to be held October 25,
         1-3 p.m. – Trunk-Or-Treat at Police Department
       • Day of the Dead celebration to be held November 1 at Al Boro Community Center, 3-9
         p.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation District board meeting, a
          Central Marin Sanitation Agency board meeting, and HOA events for Peacock Gap
          Homeowners Association and Montecito Area Residents Association.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on the Cal Cities Annual Conference, the Fire
          Department and Police Department Open House, a Fire Foundation community event,
          the Marin Latino Leaders luncheon, the 350 Merrydale Press Conference, and the
          Mont Marin San Rafael Park ice cream social.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on the Open House at the Public Safety Center and the
          350 Merrydale Press Conference.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulai reported on a MCE Clean Energy event, MCE Clean
          Energy meetings, the Coastal Clean-Up Day, the Library Reopening Ribbon-Cutting,
          the San Rafael Fire Department Badge Pinning and Awards Ceremony, the Sustainable
          San Rafael 20th Anniversary party, the Annual BID Meeting Mixer, the San Rafael
          Chamber’s Inside the Funder’s Mind event, the Cal Cities Annual Conference, the
          Great Communities Collaborative (20th anniversary celebration), and the Pickleweed
                                                                                         3
           Park Enhancement Project Ribbon-Cutting.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on the Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) Clean Fleet
           Expo, the Pickleweed Park Ribbon-Cutting, the Sip and Bite Café Ribbon-Cutting, and
           The Cave Ribbon-Cutting, the East San Rafael Working Group, the Public Safety Open
           House, the Marin Latino Leaders Luncheon, and Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit
           (SMART).

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Brent McClain, Sherna Deamer, Montecillo Area Residents Association, Phil Downs, Sr.,
Ashley, Kim, Name Withheld, Noel Stenberg, Sue, Walt Pederson, Name Withheld, Carter, Eoin
Sheeran and Gregory Andrew

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Mayor Kate presented the Proclamation for National First Responders Day 2025.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special and Regular City Council Meetings of October 6, 2025 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Revised City Staff Appointments to Joint Powers Authorities and Committees
      Approve the Appointment of Representatives to the Marin County Hazardous and Solid
      Waste Joint Powers Authority (Zero Waste Marin), Marin Emergency Radio Authority
      (MERA), the Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority Operations Committee (MWPA), and the
      Marin General Services Authority (MGSA) (CM)
      Approved appointments

   c. California State Preschool Program Continued Funding Application and Renewal of Contract
       for Fiscal Year 2026-27
       Resolution Authorizing the City of San Rafael to Apply for Continued Funding and Renewal
       of California State Preschool Program Contract with the California Department of
       Education and Designating Authorized Representatives as Signatories for Related Contract
       Documents (LR)
       Adopted Resolution 15466

   d. Byrne State Crisis Intervention Program (SCIP) Grant Acceptance
      Resolution Approving the Acceptance and Appropriation of Byrne State Crisis Intervention
      Program (SCIP) Grant Funds in the Amount of $483,282 to Support the San Rafael
      Specialized Assistance for Everyone (SAFE) Team, Expand Crisis Response Services, and

                                                                                         4
      Develop Enhanced Firearm Relinquishment Procedures, and Authorizing the City Manager
      to Execute a Grant Agreement and Any Related Documents (PD)
      Adopted Resolution 15467

   e. National First Responders’ Day 2025 Proclamation
      Proclamation in Recognition of National First Responders’ Day 2025 (PW)
      Received and filed

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation in Recognition of United Against Hate Week 2025 and
      Support for Not in Our Town (CM)
      Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

      Mayor Kate called a recess at 6:53 p.m.

      Mayor Kate called the meeting back to order at 7:06 p.m.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. Triennial Fire Code Ordinance Amendments
      An Ordinance Amending Chapter 4.08 of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Adopt by
      Reference the California Fire Code 2025 Edition with Local Amendments Based on the
      International Fire Code 2024 Edition, and the 2025 International Wildland-Urban Interface
      Code, Based on the 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code and Adopting
      Findings Of Fact Supporting the Amendments to Such Codes: Setting a Public Hearing
      Date for Adoption; CEQA Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15061(b)(3)
      (FD)

      Deputy Fire Chief Bob Sinnott presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to introduce the
      Ordinance, waive further reading and refer to it by title only and set a Public Hearing for
      November 3, 2025.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

       The City Clerk read the title of the Ordinance
       An Ordinance Amending Chapter 4.08 of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Adopt by
      Reference the California Fire Code 2025 Edition with Local Amendments Based on the
      International Fire Code 2024 Edition, and the 2025 International Wildland-Urban Interface
                                                                                          5
   Code, Based on the 2024 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code and Adopting
   Findings of Fact Supporting the Amendments to Such Codes.

b. Establishment of Mobile Food Vending Program and Revised Ordinance
   Introduction of (1) An Ordinance Amending Title 10 (Businesses, Professions, Occupations,
   Industries and Trade) of the Municipal Code of the City of San Rafael, to Adopt Chapter
   10.50, Mobile Vending Permit Program; (2) A Resolution to Add Mobile Vending Program
   Fees to the City’s Master Fee Schedule for Fiscal Year 2025-2026; and (3) A Resolution
   Authorizing the City of Manager to Enter into an Interlocal Enforcement Memorandum of
   Understanding with the County of Marin; CEQA Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA
   Guidelines Section 15061 (B)(3) (CED)

   Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson Piñon provided comments and introduced
   Assistant Director of Community and Economic Development Director Greg Minor who
   presented the Staff Report, and invited Sarah Jones, County of Marin Community
   Development Agency Director, to provide some comments.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate opened public comment.

   Speakers: Diana Benitez, Canal Alliance, Franccesca Santana, Felix Perez, Voces del Canal,
   Osiris, Angelica, Cris Parra, Aurelia Vargas, Nuestro Canal, Nuestro Futuro/Voces del Canal,
   Daniel Duarte, Marta Garcia, Efrain Ida, Cruz Vargas, Voces del Canal, Mario Santay, Javier,
   Nuestro Canal, Nuestro Futuro, Florida Malrodas, Voces del Canal/Nuestro Canal, Nuestro
   Futuro, Marina Palma, Sharon Velasco and Jose, Nuestro Canal, Nuestro Futuro.

   Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

   City Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to introduce the
   Ordinance, waive further reading and refer to it by title only.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   The City Clerk read the title of the Ordinance
   An Ordinance Amending Title 10 (Businesses, Professions, Occupations, Industries and
   Trade) of the Municipal Code of the City of San Rafael, to Adopt Chapter 10.50, Mobile
   Vending Permit Program.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt a
   Resolution to Add Mobile Vending Program Fees to the City’s Master Fee Schedule for Fiscal
   Year 2025-2026.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None
                                                                                        6
       Adopted Resolution 15468

       Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt a Resolution
       Authorizing the City of Manager to Enter into an Interlocal Enforcement Memorandum of
       Understanding with the County of Marin.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:             Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:             None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:             None

       Adopted Resolution 15469

Mayor Kate called a recess at 9:36 p.m.

Mayor Kate called the meeting back to order at 9:44 p.m.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. City Council Three-Year Strategic Plan for Fiscal Year 2025-2026 and Work Plan for FY 2025-
       26
       Resolution Adopting the City Council’s Revised Three-Year Strategic Plan for FY 2025-
       2028 and Work Plan for Fiscal Years 2025-26 (CM)

      City Manager Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager John Stefanski and Digital Service
      and Open Government Director Sean Mooney presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Sherna Deamer, Montecillo Area Residents Association and Diana Benitez, Canal
      Alliance

      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      City Councilmembers provided comments.

       Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt a Resolution
       Adopting the City Council’s Revised Three-Year Strategic Plan for FY 2025-2028 and Work
       Plan for Fiscal Years 2025-26.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:             Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:             None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:             None

       Adopted Resolution 15470

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • None

                                                                                             7
ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:48 p.m. in honor of Mark Milberg, Novato Councilmember
who recently passed away.


                                                         __________________________
                                                         LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         8
