                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                             In-Person:
                                  San Rafael City Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Participate Virtually:
                    Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2022-07-05
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                      ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
in-person,    virtually   using    Zoom      and    is     being     streamed     to   YouTube     at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees
  • Use the sign-in sheet (optional) which allows notification of potentially exposed individuals if
      contact tracing reveals COVID-19 transmission may have occurred in a given meeting
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
Absent:           Councilmember Bushey
Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                  City Attorney Robert Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

OPEN SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, CITY HALL – 6:30 PM
Dial-in: (669) 900-9128, Meeting ID: 933-2243-5567#
1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM, CITY HALL – 6:30 PM
2. Closed Session:
   a. Conference with Legal Counsel - Existing Litigation
      Pursuant to Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1): 2 cases
        i. Korn v. City of San Rafael, et al.
       ii. Huie v. City of San Rafael, et al.

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Bushey.

City Attorney Robert Epstein reported on a decision made in closed session on the two matters
listed on the agenda. The Council approved a global settlement agreement, of a total sum of
$50,000; and in consideration for payment the City shall receive a release from all parties involved
and have no further exposure or liability in those actions.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included tonight’s hybrid City Council meeting,
gratitude to City Staff, the on-going plague of gun violence, the recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling
overturning Roe v. Wade and a land acknowledgement.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would provide public
comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community
participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Jonathan Frieman addressed the City Council regarding a petition signed by San Rafael
     residents regarding the Northbound Central San Rafael exit off 101, which leads into Irwin
     Street by Second Street.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • The August 15, 2022 City Council meeting to be cancelled.

Councilmember Reports:

   •   Councilmember Kertz reported on the Marin County Fair, a San Rafael Chamber meeting,
       the Design Review Board interviews and the Homeless Policy Steering Committee.
   •   Councilmember Hill reported on the Design Review Board and Library Board of Trustees
       interviews.
                                                                                             2
   •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a MCCMC Climate Action Committee meeting
       and the Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP), a Marin Immigrant Rights and Justice event,
       and a meeting for the 101/580 Connector, an update on East San Rafael access study with
       Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM).
   •   Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) and Gun Safety
       Collaborative meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment on the City Manager’s Report and the Councilmember Reports;
however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council Special Meetings of June 16, 2022 and June 23, 2022
      (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15102 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Bushey

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Park and Recreation Month (LR)

   Mayor Kate presented the proclamation.

   Catherine Quffa, Library & Recreation Director introduced Craig Veramay, Assistant Library &
   Recreation Director who provided comments.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

PUBLIC HEARING
6. Public Hearing:

                                                                                         3
a. Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
   Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro Road
   Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
   Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2022-23 (PW)

   This item 6.a Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
   was heard second, after Item 6.b Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District.

   Stephen Acker, Sr. Management Analyst (Public Works) presented the Staff Report.

   Staff, including Al Cornwell, CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group responded to questions
   from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Jim Dixon, Chairman of the Median Subcommittee

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Bushey

   Resolution 15104 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San
   Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected
   Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2022-23

b. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
   Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons Assessment
   District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and
   Collection of Assessments for FY 2022-23 (PW)

   This item 6.b Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District was heard first, before Item 6.a Point
   San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District.

   April Miller, Public Works Director introduced Stephen Acker, Sr. Management Analyst
   (Public Works) who presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Carolyn Lown, Dave Bonfilio, Baypoint Lagoons Homeowners Association
   President, Dave Olson, Joe Simmons, Douglas Madison

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Staff responded to further questions from Councilmembers.
                                                                                        4
      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Bushey

      Resolution 15103 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons
      Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy
      and Collection of Assessments for FY 2022-23

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. San Rafael Public Safety Alternative Response Team
      Alternative Response Pilot Program to Deliver Social Services for Mental Health and
      Homelessness Support, And Accept Staff’s Recommendation to Issue a Request for
      Proposals (PD)

      David Spiller, Police Chief introduced Todd Berringer, Police Lieutenant who presented the
      Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Salamah Locks, John Reynolds

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report and
      staff’s recommendation to issue a request for proposals.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Bushey

      Accepted report and staff’s recommendation to issue a request for proposals

   b. Homelessness Update
      Informational Report on Status of Homelessness in San Rafael (CM)

      Marc Sabin, Homeless Program Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Jonathan Frieman, John Reynolds
                                                                                             5
    Staff responded to public comment.

    Councilmembers provided comments.

    Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

    AYES:   Councilmembers:         Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
    NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
    ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Bushey

    Accepted report

c. Draft Leaf Blower Ordinance Input
   Accept Report and Provide Direction to Staff on a Draft Ordinance of the City Council of
   the City of San Rafael Regulating the Operation of Leaf Blowers (CM)

    Walter Gonzalez, Management Analyst (City Manager’s Office) presented the Staff Report.

    Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

    Mayor Kate invited public comment.

    Speakers: Trout Black, Esther Wanning, Manuel Rivera, Patricia Theiss-Nyland, Jonathan
    Frieman, Pam Reaves, Marin Conservation League, Annika Osborn, Sustainable San Rafael,
    Lawrence Taymor

    Councilmembers provided comments and feedback regarding when to start, time and day
    restrictions and rebates.

•   Councilmember Kertz expressed interest in seeing what is coming through from the state
    regarding their program and rebates. Regarding communication, she recommended
    including information on the City website for residents in supported language that they can
    give to their provider. She recommended a middle ground with the hours.
•   Councilmember Llorens Gulati expressed interest in starting as soon as possible. She
    requested information on how violations would be reported and how the City would handle
    violations. She expressed interest in offering rebates. With regard to communications, she
    suggested all cities/towns use the same campaign and the City to work with homeowners
    and community-based organizations. She prefers to limit the hours as much as possible and
    ban on Sundays, especially in the residential areas.
•   Councilmember Hill recommended staff explore defraying the costs. As far as times, he
    requested staff examine what other municipalities are doing, including Sundays.
•   Mayor Kate expressed interest in moving forward sooner than October. She recommended
    a 9 am start time and a 5 pm end time. She requested information and feedback from other
    jurisdictions about Sunday. Regarding rebates, she expressed interest in a hardship
    component. Regarding communication, she recommended using community-based
    organizations and perhaps Marin Sanitary.

    Further discussion amongst Council and Staff regarding hours and weekends.

    Robert Epstein, City Attorney provided comments.

                                                                                        6
      Mayor Kate amended her recommendation with the times and went with the Staff
      recommendation.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        Bushey

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:08 p.m.


                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         7
