                                                 MINUTES

                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2024
                                     SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:00 P.M.
                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

                                   SPECIAL MEETING AT 4:00 P.M.
                                San Rafael Third Floor Conference Room
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/sm-2024-10-21
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 864-1778-9735#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16699009128,,86417789735# US

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Vice Mayor Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 4:02 p.m. and invited public comment; however, there
    was none.

    INTERVIEWS:
    1. Interviews

        a. Planning Commission Interviews
           Interview Applicants and Make One Appointment to Fill One Unexpired Four-Year Term
           Through the End of October 2027 on the Planning Commission Due to the Resignation of
           Shingai Samudzi (CC)

            The City Council interviewed the following applicants: Leslie Stone, Danielle O’Leary,
            Matthew Landry and Alexander Vollmer. Raoul McDuff and Gianna Scotto did not attend.

            After discussion, Vice Mayor Eli Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to
            appoint Danielle O’Leary to the Planning Commission to the end of October 2027 and to
       recommend staff return with an action to appoint Leslie Stone as the Alternate Member at
       a future City Council meeting, if she is interested.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Mayor Kate adjourned to Closed Session at 4:49 p.m.

OPEN SESSION– THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:45 P.M.
2. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

CLOSED SESSION – THIRD FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM – 4:45 P.M.
3. Closed Session:

   a. Public Employee Performance Evaluation – City Manager
      (Government Code Section 54957(b)(1))

                             REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                           San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                          1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Watch Online:
                Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-10-21
                  Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                            Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                  ID: 860-6190-5675#
                   One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

Present:          Councilmember Bushey
                  Vice Mayor Hill
                  Councilmember Kertz
                  Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                  Mayor Kate
Absent:           None
Also Present:     City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                  City Attorney Rob Epstein
                  City Clerk Lindsay Lara

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll and all members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in either Closed
Session held before the meeting and after the Special City Council meeting on October 7, 2024.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, an announcement of
the Team of the 2nd Quarter (Pickleweed Library Team), Election Day on November 5, 2024 and a
land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
                                                                                               2
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported on:
       • The Homelessness Solutions Working Group and invited those interested to apply to join
       • County of Marin to fill two open spots to represent San Rafael on their Priority Setting
         Committee
       • Northgate Mall Project Public Hearing to be held at the Planning Commission meeting on
         Tuesday, October 29 at 7 p.m.
       • San Rafael’s Treat Walk event to be held at B Street Community Center on Friday, October
         25th from 4-6 p.m.
       • 36th Day of the Dead Celebration to be held at Al Boro Community Center on Saturday,
         November 2nd from 3-9 p.m.
       • Grand Opening of Alex’s Playground and Discovery Garden to be held at Niven Park on
         Saturday, November 2nd from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Hill reported on the West End Neighborhood Association annual picnic, a
          monthly Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) meeting
          where he is presiding as president, an Economic Development Subcommittee meeting,
          an Evening of Remembrance to commemorate one year since the October 7th attack and
          the Canal Alliance Grand Opening/Ribbon Cutting.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on the Fire Department pinning ceremony, the
          Homeless Policy Steering Committee meeting and Subcommittee meeting for older
          adults, the Marin Community Clinic’s ribbon cutting, the Canal Alliance Grand Opening,
          a Marin Environmental Housing Collaborative (MEHC) community grouping meeting, the
          Marinwood Development open house, an AARP Livable Communities Workshop, a
          Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority board meeting and China Camp Heritage Day.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation board meeting, a Montecito
          Area Residents Association (MARA) meeting and Marin Transit.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Pickleweed art project launch, a Bahia Vista
          Hispanic Fiesta, the downtown 4th Annual Hops and Vines Stroll, a Voces del Canal and
          Police Department meeting, a (MCCMC) meeting, a Task Force for Parking meeting
          involving a possibility for Canal permit parking, a Transportation Authority of Marin
          (TAM) meeting, Community Conversations in Canal with Supervisor Dennis Rodoni, a
          Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC) meeting, the Community Choice
          Aggregation (CCA) Conference in Washington D.C. (through Marin Clean Energy), the
          Cal Cities Conference, a Nuestro Canal, Nuestro Futuro (Our Canal, Our Future)
          community event and the Dia De Los Muertos car parade.
       • Mayor Kate reported on the Fire Department badge pinning and welcoming Fire Chief
          Abraham Roman, a Homelessness webinar, a meeting with San Rafael High School AP
          government class students, Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART), Transportation
          Authority of Marin (TAM) and SF Bay Conservation & Development (BCDC).

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.
                                                                                               3
Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar. Councilmember Bushey and Councilmember Llorens Gulati abstained from Agenda Item
5.a due to their absence from that meeting.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special City Council Meeting of October 7, 2024 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

      AYES:    Councilmembers:           Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:    Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None
      ABSTAIN: Councilmembers:           Bushey & Llorens Gulati

   b. Legal Services Agreement
      Professional Services Agreement with Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for General
      Municipal Legal Services, in an Amount Not to Exceed $420,000 (CA)
      Authorized the City Manager to negotiate and enter into a professional services agreement with
      Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP for general municipal legal services, in an amount not to exceed
      $420,000

   c. On-Call Building Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services Agreement
      Professional Services agreement with 4LEAF, Inc. for On-Call Building Plan Review and
      Inspection Consulting Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $100,000 (CED)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Professional Services Agreement with 4LEAF, Inc.,
      for on-call building plan review and inspection consulting services in an amount not to exceed
      $100,000

   d. On-Call Building Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services Agreement
      Professional Services Agreement with Coastland Engineering, LLP for On-Call Building
      Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $200,000
      (CED)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Professional Services Agreement with Coastland
      Engineering, LLP, for on-call building plan review and inspection consulting services in an amount
      not to exceed $200,000

   e. On-Call Building Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services Agreement
      Professional Services Agreement with Interwest Consulting Group for On-call Building
      Plan Review and Inspection Consulting Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $150,000
      (CED)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Professional Services Agreement with Interwest
      Consulting Group for on-call building plan review and inspection consulting services in an amount
      not to exceed $150,000

   f. California State Preschool Program Continued Funding Application and Renewal of
      Contract for Fiscal Year 2025-26
      Resolution Authorizing the City of San Rafael to Apply for Continued Funding and Renewal
      of California State Preschool Program Contract with the California Department of
      Education (LR)
                                                                                                      4
      Resolution 15350 - Resolution Authorizing the City of San Rafael to Apply for Continued Funding
      and Renewal of California State Preschool Program Contract with the California Department of
      Education

   g. Proclamations
      Proclamations Supporting Disability Employment Awareness Month, National First
      Responders’ Day and Code Enforcement Officer Appreciation Week
      Received and Filed

   h. San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction
         Authorize and Award Agreements for San Quentin Pump Station Reconstruction Project,
         Including (PW):
      i.     A Second Amendment to Professional Services Agreement with Alpha CM, Inc. for
             Additional Construction Management, Inspection, and Testing Services, In an
             Additional Amount of $167,247, Increasing the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the
             Agreement to $950,174.88
             Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Second Amendment to Professional Services
             Agreement with Alpha CM, Inc. for additional construction management, inspection, and
             testing services, in an additional amount of $167,247, increasing the total not-to-exceed
             amount of the agreement to $950,174.88
     ii.     A Fourth Amendment to Professional Services Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh
             Engineering Group for Additional Construction Support Services, In an Additional
             Amount of $24,273, Increasing the Total Not-To-Exceed Amount of the Agreement to
             $548,153
             Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Fourth Amendment to Professional Services
             Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group for additional construction support
             services, in an additional amount of $24,273, increasing the total not-to-exceed amount of
             the agreement to $548,153

AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation from MarinMOCA Regarding Their Relocation to San Rafael and Upcoming
      Events

      Executive Director of MarinMOCA Jodi Roberts gave a presentation.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. Request to Amend the City of San Rafael’s Downtown Precise Plan
      Resolution Approving an Amendment to The Downtown Precise Plan to Remove All
      References that Designate 1030 Third Street as an Eligible Historic Resource (CED)

      Community & Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle presented the Staff Report.
                                                                                                     5
      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Vice Mayor Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
      approving an amendment to the Downtown Precise Plan to remove all references that
      designate 1030 Third Street as an Eligible Historic Resource.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15351 - Resolution Approving an Amendment to The Downtown Precise Plan to
      Remove All References that designate 1030 Third Street as an Eligible Historic Resource.
      Schedule

   b. Dominican Valley (REMOVED FROM AGENDA)
      The Appeal of an Incompleteness Determination regarding a Development Application for
      Dominican Valley Housing Development including Conceptual Design Review, Environmental
      and Design Review, Tentative Subdivision Map Application and Density Bonus Application (APN
      015-163-03) (CED)
      ***Removed from Agenda***

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Marin Transit Potential Land Use in the Canal Neighborhood
      Informational Report on Marin Transit Request for General Plan 2040 Conformance
      Determination and Potential Land Use in the Canal Neighborhood (CED)

      Community & Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment

      Speaker: Ross Bishop

      Staff responded to questions raised during public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the
      informational report on Marin Transit request for General Plan 2040 conformance
      determination and potential land use in the Canal neighborhood.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         Kertz
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

                                                                                               6
      Accepted report

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Name Withheld, Riviera Apartments Homeowners Association, regarding upcoming election
     and ballot issues

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 7:48 p.m.
                                                        __________________________
                                                        LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

                                                _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                        7
