                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                CLOSED SESSION AT 6:30 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CS-2021-08-02
                               Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                      ID: 874-3622-7711#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Legal Counsel—Existing Litigation
          Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(1)
          Claim of J. Kelly Howard
                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-08-02
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                  ID: 817-3692-0337#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a recent downtown shooting and a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding restroom use at a Community Center.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • National Night Out starting Tuesday, August 3 at 6 p.m.
    • COVID-19 Update
    • Service Support Area Update

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on working with the Loch Lomond Oversight
           Development Committee.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on a filming of a flume (water sensor) install.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on her flume install, Mulch Madness, housing vouchers
           and a Public Art Advisory Committee meeting.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a 101/580 Direct Connector field trip and a
           clean-up day in the Canal with Alcohol Justice.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on SMART, TAM and Marin Transit meetings and a tour at 3301
           Kerner Blvd (Project Homekey site).

                                                                                            2
CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, July
      19, 2021 and Special Meeting of Thursday, July 15, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Temporary Street Closure to Support Vaccination Efforts in the Canal Neighborhood
      Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal Alliance’s Effort to
      Provide COVID-19 Vaccinations (PW)
      Resolution 14957 - Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal
      Alliance’s Effort to Provide COVID-19 Vaccinations

   c. Designation of Voting Delegate for the League of California Cities Annual Conference
      & Expo
      Designation of Councilmember Eli Hill as Voting Delegate for the 2021 League of
      California Cities Annual Conference & Expo in Sacramento – September 22-24, 2021
      (CC)
      Approved the designation of Councilmember Eli Hill as voting delegate

AYES:     Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:     None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:     None

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. San Rafael General Plan 2040, Downtown Precise Plan and Zoning Ordinances

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Barry Miller, General Plan 2040
      Consultant who presented the Staff Report.

      Recess during Staff Report Presentation: 7:50 to 7:55 p.m.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

                                                                                         3
Speakers: Jeff Rhoads, San Rafael Heritage, Linzy Klumpp, San Rafael Heritage, John
Reynolds

Recess: 8:11 to 8:16 p.m.

Speakers: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Eva Chrysanthe

Staff responded to public comment.

Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

i.   Resolution Adopting Findings of Fact and a Statement of Overriding
     Consideration for General Plan 2040 and the Downtown Precise Plan (CD)

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

Resolution 14958 - Resolution Adopting Findings of Fact and a Statement of Overriding
Consideration for General Plan 2040 and the Downtown Precise Plan

ii. Resolution Adopting San Rafael General Plan 2040 (CD)

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
resolution.

AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

Resolution 14959 - Resolution Adopting San Rafael General Plan 2040

iii. Resolution Adopting Downtown Precise Plan (CD)

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
resolution.

AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

Resolution 14960 - Resolution Adopting Downtown Precise Plan



                                                                                   4
   iv. Consideration of An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code
       Amending Title 14 (Zoning Ordinance) and Amending the Zoning Map of the San
       Rafael Municipal Code to: A) Repeal the Existing Downtown Zoning Districts, and
       Replace with Downtown Mixed-Use (DMU) District; B) Amend, Delete and Replace
       Certain Zoning Provisions Applicable to Downtown San Rafael; and C) Amend,
       Delete and Replace Other Zoning Regulations to Comply with State Law and
       Incorporate Other Minor Changes, Corrections and Updates (CD)

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to pass Ordinance to
   print.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

   Passed Ordinance No. 1996 to print

   v. Consideration of An Ordinance Adopting the Downtown San Rafael Precise Plan –
      Chapter 9 Downtown Form-Based Code to Serve as the Primary Regulatory City
      Zoning Code for Downtown San Rafael (CD)

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to pass Ordinance to
   print.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

   Passed Ordinance No. 1997 to print

b. Amendments to the San Rafael Municipal Code Regarding Parks and Recreation,
   Parades, Assemblies, Expressive Activity and Other Activity on Public Property
   Consideration of An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code to Change
   the Name of Title 19 from “Open Space” to “Public Parks, Property, and Open Space”;
   to Repeal Chapter 8.10 (Parks and Recreation) and Add a New Chapter 19.20 (Parks
   and Recreation) to Title 19; to Repeal Chapter 5.70 (Meetings Assemblies and Parades
   In Public Places) of Title 5 and Add a New Chapter 19.30 (Assemblies and Parades In
   Public Streets and Rights-Of-Way) to Title 19; to Add New Chapter 19.40 (Expressive
   Activities In Public Places) to Title 19; to Add New Section 5.60.054 to Chapter 5.60
   (Parking Regulations); and Finding the Ordinance Exempt from the California
   Environmental Quality Act (CA/LR)

   Lisa Goldfien, Assistant City Attorney introduced Nira Doherty, Deputy City Attorney and
   Susan Andrade-Wax, Library & Recreation Director who presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.
                                                                                     5
   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass Ordinance
   to print.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Passed Ordinance No. 1998 to print

c. Spinnaker Point Drive Parking Modification Project
   Resolution Adopting the Mitigated Negative Declaration and Associated Mitigation
   Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Spinnaker Point Drive Parking
   Modification Project, City Project No. 11363 (PW)

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director and Geoff Reilly, Consultant from WRA presented the Staff
   Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: John Reynolds, Kate Powers, Eva Chrysanthe

   Staff responded to public comment.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

   Resolution 14961 - Resolution Adopting the Mitigated Negative Declaration and Associated
   Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Spinnaker Point Drive Parking
   Modification Project, City Project No. 11363

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to direct staff
   to proceed with the final design and submittal of regulatory environmental permits.
                                                                                        6
      AYES:      Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:     None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:     None

      Directed staff to proceed with the final design and submittal of regulatory environmental
      permits

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:02 p.m.




                                                         ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                              APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             7
