                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-11-15
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                        ID: 899-2635-9885
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
    held on November 9, 2021.
Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included an announcement of United Against Hate
Week and Native American Heritage Month, the Redistricting item to be heard tonight and a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Jason Sarris, addressed the City Council regarding a gas BBQ, donations and fire exits at the
       Service Support Area.
   • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • “Clothes and Cards” Donation Drive for Service Support Area, November 15 through
      December 31
    • Lighted Boat Parade on December 12

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, Loch Lomond
           Development Oversight Committee and MCCMC Water Committee meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on a Priority Setting Committee meeting and the Opening
           of the Marin History Museum at the Boyd House.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Canal Policy Working Group meeting, a
           visit to a new Kaiser Permanente Medical Center and a Día de los Muertos celebration.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Not In Our Town and United Against Hate, a Marin
           Wildfire Prevention Authority meeting and a First 5 “Race Counts” forum. She
           announced two openings on the Citizen’s Oversight Committee.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on the City Council Retreat.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Councilmember Hill held item 5.d from the Consent Calendar.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eda Lochte, San Rafael Business Improvement District

                                                                                           2
Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar, excluding item 5.d.

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      November 1, 2021, and Special Meeting of Tuesday, November 2, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 14996 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Business Assessment Annual Renewal
      Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual Assessment for the
      Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District (ED)
      Resolution 14997 - Resolution Declaring the City Council’s Intention to Levy an Annual
      Assessment for the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District

   d. Parks and Recreation Master Plan
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
      with Royston, Hanamoto, Alley and Abey (RHAA) to Assist with Development of San
      Rafael's Parks and Recreation Master Plan, in the Amount of $259,238, and Authorizing
      Contingency Funds in the Amount of $25,762 for a Total Amount of $285,000 (PW)

      This item was held from the Consent Calendar.

      Councilmember Hill provided comments.

      Susan Andrade-Wax, Library & Recreation Director and Bill Guerin, Public Works Director
      provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Resolution 15001 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services
      Agreement with Royston, Hanamoto, Alley and Abey (RHAA) to Assist with Development of San
                                                                                            3
      Rafael's Parks and Recreation Master Plan, in the Amount of $259,238, and Authorizing
      Contingency Funds in the Amount of $25,762 for a Total Amount of $285,000

   e. Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements Project
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment to
      the Agreement with Park Engineering, Inc. for Additional Construction Inspection and
      Materials Testing Services, in an Additional Contract Amount Not to Exceed $35,000 (PW)
      Resolution 14998 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Agreement with Park Engineering, Inc. for Additional Construction Inspection
      and Materials Testing Services, in an Additional Contract Amount Not to Exceed $35,000

   f. Southern Heights Bridge Replacement
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Second Amendment
      to the Agreement with Substrate, Inc. for Additional Construction Management,
      Inspection, and Materials Testing Services, in an Additional Contract Amount Not to
      Exceed $59,000 (PW)
      Resolution 14999 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Second
      Amendment to the Agreement with Substrate, Inc. for Additional Construction Management,
      Inspection, and Materials Testing Services, in an Additional Contract Amount Not to Exceed
      $59,000

   g. Vehicle Purchases
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Two (2) Ambulances for the Fire
      Department in a Total Amount Not to Exceed $630,000 (PW)
      Resolution 15000 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Purchase Two (2) Ambulances
      for the Fire Department in a Total Amount Not to Exceed $630,000

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation Regarding Native American Heritage Month (HR)

      Carmen Valdez, Interim HR Director gave a presentation.

      Susan Andrade-Wax, Library & Recreation Director provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

PUBLIC HEARINGS – 7:30 PM
7. Public Hearings:

   a. 2021-2022 City Council Redistricting Process
      Update on Final, Adjusted Demographics of Existing Districts; First Public Hearing on
      Existing Lines and Possible Changes (CA)

      City Attorney Robert Epstein introduced Chris Skinnell, Legal Counsel from Nielsen
      Merksamer. He and Robert McEntire, National Demographics Corporation presented the
      Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

                                                                                            4
      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      Accepted report

   b. Accessory Dwelling Unit Regulations
      Consideration of An Ordinance Amending Title 1 (General Provisions), Title 4 (Fire), Title
      12 (Building Regulations), and Title 14 (Zoning Ordinance) of the San Rafael Municipal Code
      Related to Regulations for Accessory Dwelling Units, and Report Issued Pursuant to
      Government Code § 65858(d) (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Jacob Noonan, Housing
      Program Manager and Leslie Mendez, Planning Manager who presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Victoria DeWitt, Susan Bradford, Joanne Webster, San Rafael Chamber of
      Commerce

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to pass Ordinance No.
      2002 to print

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           None

      Passed to print Ordinance No. 2002 Amending Title 1 (General Provisions), Title 4 (Fire), Title 12
      (Building Regulations), and Title 14 (Zoning Ordinance) of the San Rafael Municipal Code Related
      to Regulations for Accessory Dwelling Units, and Report Issued Pursuant to Government Code §
      65858(d)

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:
                                                                                                 5
   a. Year-End Financial Statements and Related Audit Reports
      Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Annual Financial Report; Gann Appropriations Limit; Memorandum
      on Internal Control; Report of Required Communications; Child Development Program
      Financial Report; and the Transportation Development Act Financial Report (Fin)

      Nadine Hade, Finance Director and Amy Meyer, Maze & Associates presented the Staff
      Report.

      Councilmembers provided      comments     and   staff   responded   to   questions       from
      Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:26 p.m.



                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           6
