                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-02-22
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgment, gratitude to City
    staff and an update on in-person meetings.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Yavar Amidi and Erick Bejarano, Alcohol Justice, addressed the City Council regarding a
     current youth program campaign.
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Downtown Transit Center Update
    • Photo exposition about lighting in the Canal to be held on February 26, 1-4 p.m.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Chamber of Commerce Government Advisory
           Committee, Age-Friendly Committee, Point-in-Time Count, Marin Wildfire Prevention
           Authority (MWPA), and Community Conversation District 4 meetings, as well as, the
           Oakmont ribbon cutting.
       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, San Rafael
           Sanitation District, MCCMC Water Committee, Marin Municipal Water District and
           Community Conversation District 3 meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on MCCMC Water Committee, Marin Municipal Water
           District and Community Conversation District 2 meetings.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Canal Policy Working Group, Voces del
           Canal, Economic Development Subcommittee, Catalina speed calming, Marin Clean
           Energy (MCE) and MCCMC Economic Recovery meetings.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on MCCMC Economic Recovery, San Rafael Sanitation District,
           Canal Policy Working Group, SMART and Department of Energy meetings, as well as, a
           Mayor Kate walkabout.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Lori Schifrin

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
                                                                                         2
     Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
     February 7, 2022 (CC)
     Approved minutes as submitted

  b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
     Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
     Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
     and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
     the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
     Resolution 15036 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
     the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
     Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
     the COVID-19 Pandemic

  c. Amend City Council Appointments to Committees
     Approve the Appointment of Mayor Kate Colin and Councilmember Maribeth Bushey to
     Serve on the Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers City/County Services
     Subcommittee for 2022 (CC)
     Approved Appointment

  d. The Neighborhood at Los Gamos Ordinance
     Ordinance No. 2003: An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael Approving a Zone Change (ZC
     20-002) from Planned District - Hillside Development Overlay District (PD-H) and
     Residential – Hillside Development Overlay District (R2A-H) to Planned Development
     District (PD) (CD)
     Approved Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2003

  e. Annual Audit of Federal Grant Expenditures
     Single Audit Report for the Year Ended June 30, 2021 (Fin)
     Accepted report

  f. SB 1383 Local Assistance Grant
     Resolution Authorizing Submittal of Applications for All CalRecycle Grant and Payment
     Programs and Related Authorizations for Which the City of San Rafael is Eligible (CM)
     Resolution 15037 - Resolution Authorizing Submittal of Applications for All CalRecycle Grant and
     Payment Programs and Related Authorizations for Which the City of San Rafael is Eligible

  g. Annual Measure G Oversight Committee Report
     Measure G Cannabis Business Tax Oversight Committee Report for Fiscal Year 2020-2021
     (ED)
     Accepted report

  h. Land and Water Conservation Fund Application for Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project
     Resolution Approving the Application for Land and Water Conservation Fund for the
     Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project (LR)
     Resolution 15038 - Resolution Approving the Application for Land and Water Conservation Fund
     for the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None
                                                                                              3
PUBLIC HEARINGS AT 7:30 PM:
6. Public Hearings:

  a. 2021-2022 City Council Redistricting Process
     Third Public Hearing on Existing Council District Lines and Possible Changes (CA)

     Lisa Goldfien, Assistant City Attorney introduced Chris Skinnell, Legal Counsel from Nielsen
     Merksamer. He and Kristen Parks, National Demographics Corporation presented the Staff
     Report.

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment.

     Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

     Staff responded to public comment.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
     report.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

     Accepted report

  b. Amendment to the San Rafael Municipal Code Regarding Recycling of Organic Waste to
     Comply with Senate Bill 1383
     Consideration of an Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code to Repeal Chapter
     9.19 – Refuse and Recycled Materials Collection and Disposal and Replace It with New
     Chapter 9.19 – Solid Waste Collection and Disposal and Edible Food Recovery (CM)

     Coty Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager, Rose Radford, R3 and Elinor Nichols,
     Sustainability Fellow presented the Staff Report.

     Staff recommended the following changes to the Ordinance:
     Conduct Public Hearing and Pass to Print with the Following Additions (underlined) as
     Amendments:
     9.19.110 Collection containers.
     B. Except as otherwise provided by the city’s franchise agreement with the authorized
     collector, each dwelling unit shall be required to have a minimum garbage service of one (1)
     thirty-two (32) gallon cart for garbage collection; one (1) thirty-two (32) gallon cart for
     recyclable materials collection; and one (1) thirty-two (32) gallon cart for organic materials
     collection. Except in the case of multifamily dwellings of more than four (4) dwelling units,
     no two (2) or more dwelling units shall share communal waste collection services or
     approved collection containers except with the permission of the authorized collector.


                                                                                            4
      Staff, including Marin Sanitary Service staff, responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Andy Naja-Riese, Agricultural Institute of Marin, Bill Carney, Sustainable San
      Rafael, Belle Cole, Organizing for Action Marin/Marin Biomass Project, Arlin Benavidas,
      Sustainable San Rafael, Annika Osborn, Sustainable San Rafael, Eva Chrysanthe, Larry
      Minikes

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to pass
      Ordinance No. 2004 to print, with the edits as presented by staff.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Passed to print Ordinance No. 2004 Amending the San Rafael Municipal Code to Repeal Chapter
      9.19 – Refuse and Recycled Materials Collection and Disposal and Replace It with New Chapter
      9.19 – Solid Waste Collection and Disposal and Edible Food Recovery

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:48 p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                             KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           5
