                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, JULY 19, 2021


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
    Absent:           Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      Assistant City Attorney Lisa Goldfien
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-07-19
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. She provided opening remarks, which included
    an update on returning to in-person Council meetings and a land acknowledgement.

    Mayor Kate invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the roll. All members of the City Council were
    present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
    the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
    members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
    She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.
OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session: – None.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Jason, addressed the City Council regarding homelessness.
   • Sunny Lee, addressed the City Council regarding proposed library relocation.
   • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding city-sanctioned homeless
       encampment.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Canal Public Mural Project/Future Terra Linda Public Art Project update
    • Service Support Area update
    • Drought update
    • Marin County Job Fair on August 3rd
    • Farmers Market every Thursday 5-8 p.m. and Dining Under the Lights every Thursday &
       Friday 5-9 p.m.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a Central Marin Sanitation Agency meeting.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Economic Development Subcommittee, Job Fair/San
           Rafael Age-Friendly, Service Support Area/Homelessness, Boards & Commissions
           Interviews and Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority (MWPA) meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill provided a drought update.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on a SMART meeting and Boards & Commissions Interviews.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara gave an update on the recent Boards & Commissions appointments.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
                                                                                          2
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Tuesday, July
      6, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Vacancies on San Rafael Boards and Commissions
      Announcement of Vacancies on San Rafael Pickleweed Advisory Committee and the
      Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee (CC)
      Received and filed

   c. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      June 30, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:     Councilmembers:     Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:     None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:     Llorens Gulati

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. 2021-2022 City Council Redistricting Process
      Informational Report on Upcoming City Council Redistricting Process Following
      Release of 2020 United States Census Data, and Approval of Tentative Timeline for
      Adoption of New Districts by April 17, 2022 (CA)

      Lisa Goldfien, Assistant City Attorney and Chris Skinnell, Nielsen Merksamer presented the
      Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Sunny Lee, Kiki La Porta, Sustainable San Rafael

      Staff, including Kristen Parks, National Demographics Corporation responded to public
      comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati
                                                                                         3
      Accepted report

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. San Rafael General Plan 2040 and Downtown Precise Plan
      i. Resolution Certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) (SCH
         #2019039167) Prepared for the San Rafael General Plan 2040 and Downtown San
         Rafael Precise Plan (CD);

      ii. Report on the Upcoming Review of the San Rafael General Plan 2040 Document
          and the Downtown Precise Plan (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Barry Miller, General Plan 2040
      Consultant who presented the Staff Report.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: David Moller, Marin/Sonoma Building Electrification Squad, Bill Carney,
      Sustainable San Rafael, Damian Morgan, Eva Chrysanthe, Arlin Benevides, Multicultural
      Center of Marin, Kate Powers, Marin Conservation League, KiKi La Porta, Sustainable
      Marin/League of Women Voters, Annika Osborn Cool the Earth/Drive Clean Bay Area, Belle
      Cole, Organization for Action Marin (OFA), Lindsay Smith, Jason Sarris, Barbara Salzman,
      Marin Audubon Society, Sunny Lee

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 14946 - Resolution Certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) (SCH
      #2019039167) Prepared for the San Rafael General Plan 2040 and Downtown San Rafael
      Precise Plan (CD)

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to accept the report.

                                                                                         4
   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

   Accepted Report

b. Request for Modification of Affordable Housing Requirements
   Resolution Modifying Conditions of Approval of Environmental and Design Review
   (ED18-100), Use Permit (UP18-039) and Tentative Map (TS18-006) for the Merrydale
   Townhomes Located at 350 Merrydale Rd/3833 Redwood Hwy to Allow Fulfillment of
   the Affordable Housing Requirement in Accordance with City Council Resolution
   14890 (ZC19-002) (CD)

   Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Ethan Guy, Consultant who
   presented the staff report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Robert Upton, Campus Properties, Name withheld, Bill Carney, Sustainable San
   Rafael, Michael Hooper, Campus Properties

   Applicant Robert Upton, Campus Properties responded to public comment.

   Staff responded to comments and questions from Councilmembers.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 14947 - Resolution Modifying Conditions of Approval of Environmental and Design
   Review (ED18-100), Use Permit (UP18-039) and Tentative Map (TS18-006) for the Merrydale
   Townhomes Located at 350 Merrydale Rd/3833 Redwood Hwy to Allow Fulfillment of the
   Affordable Housing Requirement in Accordance with City Council Resolution 14890 (ZC19-
   002)

c. Request to Waive the Building Permit Fees
   Resolution Denying the Request for Waiver of Building Permit Fees for Vivalon
   Healthy Aging Affordable Housing Project at 999 Third Street (Previously
   Whistlestop) (APN: 011-265-01) (CD)



                                                                                      5
     Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Don Jeppson, Chief Building
     Official who presented the staff report.

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment.

     Speakers: Bob Pendoley, Marin Environmental Housing Collaborative (MEHC), Anne Grey,
     Vivalon, Tamar, Eden Housing, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

     Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Staff provided comments.

     Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

     AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
     NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
     ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

     Resolution 14948 - Resolution Denying the Request for Waiver of Building Permit Fees for
     Vivalon Healthy Aging Affordable Housing Project at 999 Third Street (Previously Whistlestop)
     (APN: 011-265-01)

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS (continued)
8. Other Agenda Items:

  a. Approval of the New Memorandum of Understanding with AFSCME/Local 1 &
     Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter
     Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
     and Working Conditions for AFSCME / LOCAL 1 (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024)
     and Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter (HR)

     Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report. She announced that
     she would be combining the Staff Reports for Items 8.a and 8.b.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

     Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
     resolution.

     AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
     NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
     ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati
                                                                                           6
   Resolution 14949 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for AFSCME / LOCAL 1 (July 1, 2021 Through June
   30, 2024) and Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 14950 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for Western Council of Engineers (July 1, 2021
   Through June 30, 2024) and Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter

b. Approval of the New Memorandum of Understanding with Western Council of
   Engineers (WCE) & Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for Western Council of Engineers (July 1, 2021 Through June
   30, 2024) and Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter (HR)
   Recommended Action – Adopt Resolution

   The Staff Report for Item 8.b Approval of the New Memorandum of Understanding with
   Western Council of Engineers (WCE) & Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter was combined
   (and presented) with Item 8.a. See Item 8.a Approval of the New Memorandum of
   Understanding with AFSCME/Local 1 & Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter.

c. Approval of the New Memorandum of Understanding with SEIU Local 1021 &
   Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024) and
   Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati




                                                                                 7
   Resolution 14951 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 (July 1, 2021 Through June 30,
   2024) and Furlough Reimbursement Side Letter

d. Memorandum of Understanding Between the City of San Rafael and San Rafael Fire
   Chief Officers’ Association
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association (July 1, 2021
   Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 14952 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’ Association (July 1,
   2021 Through June 30, 2024)

e. Memorandum of Understanding Between the City of San Rafael and San Rafael Police
   Mid-Management Association
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association (July 1,
   2021 Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      Llorens Gulati

   Resolution 14953 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
   Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association
   (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024)

                                                                                        8
f. Approval of the New Resolution that Authorizes Compensation for Executive
   Management Employees
   Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for
   Unrepresented Executive Management Employees (July 1, 2021 through June 30,
   2024) and FY 20-21 Furlough Repayment (HR)

  Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report. Sylvia Gonzalez, HR
  Operations Manager presented the Staff Report. She announced that she would be
  combining the Staff Reports for Items 8.f, 8.g and 8.h.

  Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

  Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
  resolution.

  AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
  ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 14954 - Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for
  Unrepresented Executive Management Employees (July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024) and
  FY 20-21 Furlough Repayment

  Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
  resolution.

  AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
  ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 14955 - Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for
  Unrepresented Mid-Management Employees (July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024) and FY 20-
  21 Furlough Repayment

  Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

  AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
  NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
  ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       Llorens Gulati

  Resolution 14956 - Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for the
  Elected City Clerk and Elected Part-Time City Attorney (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024)
  and FY 20-21 Furlough Repayment



                                                                                      9
   g. Approval of the New Resolution that Authorizes Compensation for Mid-Management
      Employees
      Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for
      Unrepresented Mid-Management Employees (July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024)
      and FY 20-21 Furlough Repayment (HR)
      Recommended Action – Adopt Resolution

      The Staff Report for Item 8.g Approval of the New Resolution that Authorizes Compensation
      for Mid-Management Employees was combined (and presented) with Item 8.f. See Item 8.f
      Approval of the New Resolution that Authorizes Compensation for Executive Management
      Employees.

   h. Approval of the New Salary Resolution that Authorizes Compensation for Elected City
      Clerk and Part-Time City Attorney
      Resolution Establishing the Compensation and Working Conditions for the Elected
      City Clerk and Elected Part-Time City Attorney (July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024)
      and FY 20-21 Furlough Repayment (HR)
      Recommended Action – Adopt Resolution

      The Staff Report for Item 8.h Approval of the New Salary Resolution that Authorizes
      Compensation for Elected City Clerk and Part-Time City Attorney was combined (and
      presented) with Item 8.f. See Item 8.f Approval of the New Resolution that Authorizes
      Compensation for Executive Management Employees.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending June
      30, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:     Members:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Chair Kate
NOES:     Members:      None
ABSENT:   Members:      Llorens Gulati

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 11:12 p.m.




                                                                                        10
          ___________________________
             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

      _____________________________________
               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                              11
