                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, MAY 6, 2024

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                           Watch Online:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2024-05-06
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                       ID: 844-3204-9611#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,84432049611# US

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.


    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Mayor Pro Tem Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:             Mayor Kate
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        City Attorney Rob Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Pro Tem Hill called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to
    call the roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Mayor Kate.

    Mayor Pro Tem Hill provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City staff and a land
    acknowledgment.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
    and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
    comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.
CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich announced:
       • Public Service Recognition Week Proclamation
       • Free Event - Drew Robinson: A Survivor’s Story of Mental Health, Hope and Recovery
          to be held May 9, College of Marin (Kentfield), 5 p.m.
       • 2nd Friday Art Walk, Downtown, 5-8 p.m.
       • May Madness Car Show & Parade to be held Saturday May 11, Downtown, 12-6 p.m.
       • Taste of San Rafael - State of the City to be held Wednesday May 15, Rafael Theater,
          4:30-7 p.m.
       • Farmers Market to be held May 16 thru August 24, Downtown, 5:30-8:30 p.m.

   City Attorney Rob Epstein
       • How to request reasonable accommodations for attending City Council or Board,
          Commission and Committee meetings.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on a SMART train visit, San Rafael Downtown Earth Day,
          the Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) legislative
          committee, China Camp’s Earth Day and the Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority
          (MWPA).
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Earth Day in the Canal, the annual breakfast
          with Congressman Jared Huffman, a Spinnaker and Baypoint neighborhood meeting, a
          City Climate Action Plan (CCAP) quarterly committee meeting, a BayWAVE meeting, a
          MCE Executive Committee meeting and a San Rafael Safe Routes to Schools task force
          meeting.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation District board meeting, a
          Marin Transit board meeting (representing MCCMC) and a meeting with Supervisor
          Sackett.
       • Mayor Pro Tem Hill reported on the second annual Marin County Youth Town Hall.

Mayor Pro Tem Hill invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Pro Tem Hill invited public comment on the Consent Calendar items.

Speakers: Karen Strolia, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Eva Chrysanthe

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special and Regular City Council Meetings of April 15, 2024 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted



                                                                                        2
b. Ordinance Regulating Camping on Public Property
   Final Adoption of Ordinance 2035: An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San
   Rafael Amending Chapter 19.50 to the San Rafael Municipal Code, Entitled “Camping on
   Public Property” Regulating Camping on Public Property Within the City of San Rafael
   (CED)
   Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 2035

c. Proclamations
   Proclamations Supporting:
       i. Older Americans Month
      ii. Wildfire Preparedness Month
     iii. Public Service Recognition Week,
    iv. Asian American, Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
      v. Jewish American Heritage Month
    vi. Arab American Heritage Month
    vii. National Police Week
          Received and filed

d. First Responder Counseling Services Agreement Amendment
   Authorize the City Manager to Enter into the Second Amendment to the Professional
   Services Agreement with Public Safety Family Counseling Group, Inc. in the Amount Not
   to Exceed $30,000, For a Total Not to Exceed Amount Under the Agreement of $150,000
   (HR)
   Authorized the City Manager to enter into a Second Amendment to the Professional Services
   Agreement with Public Safety Family Counseling Group, Inc. for first responder counseling
   services, in an amount not to exceed $30,000, increasing the total not to exceed amount under
   the agreement to $150,000; and Authorized a supplemental budget appropriation with
   Employee Benefits Fund (Fund 604) in an amount not to exceed $30,000

e. Public Art Project Proposal to Paint Six (6) Public Utility Boxes Throughout San Rafael
   Approval of the San Rafael Leadership Institute Proposal to Paint Murals on Six (6) Public
   Utility Boxes Throughout San Rafael (LR)
   Approved the San Rafael Leadership Institute proposal to paint murals on six (6) public utility
   boxes throughout San Rafael

f. City Quarterly Investment Report
   Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
   March 31, 2024 (Fin)
   Accepted report

g. Third Street Rehabilitation Project
   Authorize the City Manager to Enter into the Second Amendment to the Professional
   Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering for Construction Management and
   Inspection Services Associated with the Third Street Rehabilitation Project, in an
   Additional Amount of $21,280, Increasing the Total Not to Exceed Amount of the
   Agreement to $1,569,580 (PW)
   Authorized the City Manager to enter into the second amendment to the professional services
   agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering for construction management and inspection services
   associated with the Third Street Rehabilitation Project, in an additional amount of $21,280,
   increasing the total not to exceed amount of the agreement to $1,569,580; and Authorized a

                                                                                           3
        supplemental budget appropriation with Gas Tax Funds (#206) in an amount not to exceed
        $21,280

   h. Miovision Traffic Camera Service Agreement
      Authorize the City Manager to Enter into an Agreement with Miovision Technologies
      Incorporated for Traffic Camera Services for Up to Four (4) Years with Up to a Five Percent
      (5%) Increase Per Fiscal Year of Service and Appropriate $88,018 to the General Fund for
      Year One of Service (PW)
      Authorized the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Miovision Technologies
      Incorporated (“Miovision”) for traffic camera services for up to four (4) years with up to a five
      percent (5%) increase per fiscal year of service and appropriate $88,018 to the General Fund for
      year one of service

   i.   Second Street, Fourth Street and Miracle Mile Intersection Improvements Project
        Authorize the City Manager to Enter into the First Amendment to the Professional Services
        Agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group, Inc. for Additional Design
        Services Associated with the Second Street, Fourth Street and Miracle Mile Intersection
        Improvements Project, in an Additional Amount of $96,900, Increasing the Total Not to
        Exceed Amount of the Agreement to $228,482 (PW)
        Authorized the City Manager to enter into the first amendment to the professional services
        agreement with CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group Inc. for additional design services
        associated with the Second Street, Fourth Street and Miracle Mile Intersection Improvements
        Project, in an additional amount of $96,000, increasing the total not to exceed amount of the
        agreement to $228,482; and Authorized a supplemental budget appropriation with Gas Tax
        Funds (#206) in an amount not to exceed $96,900

   j.   City of San Rafael Essential Facilities Construction Project: Fire Stations 54 And 55
        Authorize the City Manager to Enter into the Second Amendment to the Professional
        Services Agreement with Loving Campos Associates Architects, Inc. for Extended
        Architectural, Waterproofing Consulting and Construction Administration Services
        Related to Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects: Fire Stations 54 and 55, in an Additional
        Amount of $120,995, Increasing the Total Not to Exceed Amount of the Agreement to
        $451,741 (PW)
        Authorized the City Manager to enter into the second amendment to the professional services
        agreement with Loving Campos Associates Architects, Inc. for extended architectural, waterproof
        consulting and construction administration services related to the Phase 2 Essential Facilities
        Projects: Fire Stations 54 and 55, in and additional amount of $120,995, increasing the total not
        to exceed amount of the agreement to $451,741; and Authorized a supplemental budget
        appropriation with Essential Facilities Capital Projects Fund (#420) in an amount not to exceed
        $120,995

   AYES:           Councilmembers:        Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Hill
   NOES:           Councilmembers:        None
   ABSENT:         Councilmembers:        Mayor Kate

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS:
5. Special Presentations:

   Mayor Pro Tem Hill invited public comment; however, there was none.

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Mental Health Awareness Month (CM)
                                                                                                  4
      City Manager Cristine Alilovich provided comments and introduced the item, Mayor Pro
      Tem Hill presented the Proclamation and Kara Connors of Marin County Behavioral Health
      & Recovery Services (BHRS) gave a presentation.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
      Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Project Funding
      for the Fiscal Year 2024-25 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors (CED)

      Mel Burnette, Homelessness and Housing Analyst presented the Staff Report with Molly
      Kron, Marin County Community Development Agency.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Pro Tem Hill invited public comment.

      Speakers: Carolyn Flannery, Make It Home, Name Withheld, Al Vetere, Damian, Jonathan
      Frieman

      Staff responded to questions from the community.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      At the request of the Council, City Attorney Rob Epstein provided comments regarding a
      possible motion such that the Council can accommodate a pro rata change in the resolution.

      Molly Kron, Marin County Community Development Agency provided comments on past
      practice.

      City Attorney Rob Epstein suggested that the motion be consistent with past practice
      regarding reallocation, if necessary.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt a Resolution
      Recommending Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Project Funding for the
      Fiscal Year 2024-25 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors, consistent with past
      practice.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Hill
      NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Mayor Kate

      Resolution 15285 - Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
      Project Funding for the Fiscal Year 2024-25 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors, consistent
      with past practice.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding antisemitism and the attack at the
     Islamic Center of North Marin.

                                                                                               5
   •   Catherine Healy addressed the City Council regarding illegal anchor-outs in San Rafael
       turning basin on the Canal.
   •   Jerry McNulty, San Rafael Yacht Club, addressed the City Council regarding illegal anchor-
       outs in San Rafael turning basin on the Canal.
   •   Mia Burnt addressed the City Council regarding illegal anchor-outs in San Rafael turning
       basin on the Canal.
   •   Bob Mittelstaedt, E-Bike Access, addressed the City Council regarding personal attacks on
       a person’s heritage/religion and E-bike enforcement updates.
   •   Marina Palma, 400 Canal St. Tenants Union, addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal
       Street utilities and rent.
   •   Glendy, 400 Canal St. Tenants Union, addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal
       Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld, 400 Canal St. Tenants Union, addressed the City Council regarding 400
       Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Florida Morales, Voces del Canal addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street
       utilities and rent.
   •   Gloria Calderon addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Efraim addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Maximo addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street, accommodations
       and E-bikes.
   •   Sara Benitez addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Elvin Mazariegos addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street utilities and rent.
   •   Shinji S. addressed the City Council regarding 400 Canal Street and E-bikes in San Rafael.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Pro Tem Hill invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Kertz seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      March 31, 2024 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   AYES:         Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Chair Pro Tem Hill
   NOES:         Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:       Councilmembers:       Chair Kate

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Pro Tem Hill adjourned the meeting at 8:14 p.m.


                                                                                            6
           ___________________________
              LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2024

      _____________________________________
               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                              7
