                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-03-21
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION – (669) 900-9128 ID: 894-8602-0233# - 6:15 PM
    1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION – (669) 900-9128 ID: 894-8602-0233# - 6:15 PM
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Legal Counsel—Anticipated Litigation
          Significant Exposure to Litigation Pursuant to Paragraph (2) of Subdivision (d) of
          Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(2) and (e)(3): (One case)

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a land acknowledgement, gratitude to City
Staff, Russia’s attack on Ukraine and the two-year mark of virtual council meetings. She announced
the first in-person, hybrid meeting will be on April 18.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Name Withheld, addressed the City Council regarding posting a No Smoking sign next to
     the picnic tables at Hartzell Park, as well as, upgrading San Rafael parks.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Citywide Parks & Recreation Master Plan Update – Next Community Meeting to be held on
      Wednesday, March 30 at 6 pm
    • Friends of San Rafael Library Spring Book Sale on Friday, March 25 at 10 am and Saturday,
      March 26 at 9 am
    • 50th Anniversary of Vivalon March for Meals Campaign

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Lori Schifrin

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on a Cal Cities Planning Academy, a Children for Change
           event, an Age-Friendly San Rafael meeting, and the Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority
           (MWPA).
       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on meetings with Public Works, constituent groups
           and the County regarding two lane closures on Pt. San Pedro Road, as well as, Loch
           Lomond Oversight Committee, Central Marin Sanitation Agency and MCCMC Water
           Committee meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on the Third Street Rehabilitation Project and a MCCMC
           Water Committee meeting.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Economic Development and Marin Clean
           Energy (MCE) meetings, as well as, a Climate Solutions for Marin event.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on a Climate Solutions for Marin event, a Mayor Kate Walkabout,
           as well as, Economic Development and Safe Routes to Schools meetings, a
           Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) hard hat tour and her Joint Community
           Conversation.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

                                                                                           2
CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Lori Schifrin

Staff responded to public comment.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting and Special
      Meetings of Tuesday, March 7, 2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15044 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Update to Assistant City Attorney Compensation
      Resolution Approving the Adjustment of the Compensation Schedule for the Assistant City
      Attorney to Align with Executive Management Salaries (HR)
      Resolution 15045 - Resolution Approving the Adjustment of the Compensation Schedule for the
      Assistant City Attorney to Align with Executive Management Salaries

   d. Fifth Avenue Traffic Signal Upgrades
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Sign Purchase Orders and/or Agreements with
      Miovision and DC Electric Group for Traffic Signal Upgrades on Fifth Avenue at: C, B, A,
      and Court Streets (PW)
      Resolution 15046 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Sign Purchase Orders and/or
      Agreements with Miovision and DC Electric Group for Traffic Signal Upgrades on Fifth Avenue at:
      C, B, A, and Court Streets

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None




                                                                                              3
PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. 2021-2022 City Council Redistricting Process
      Fourth Public Hearing on Existing City Council District Lines and Possible Changes;
      Resolution Adjusting the Boundaries and Selecting a Preferred District Map of the City
      Council Districts in Accordance with California Elections Code Sections 21601-21609 and
      San Rafael Municipal Code Section 2.02.040 (CA)

      Robert Epstein, City Attorney introduced Chris Skinnell, Legal Counsel from Nielsen
      Merksamer. He and Kristen Parks, National Demographics Corporation presented the Staff
      Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution,
      in the form attached to the Staff Report, approving the current district map for use beginning
      at the City’s November 2022 election.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Resolution 15047 – Resolution Adopting Resolution, in the Form Attached to the Staff Report,
      Approving the Current District Map for Use Beginning at the City’s November 2022 election

   b. Annual Progress Report & Housing Policy Update
      Annual Progress Report (APR) on Residential Development Approved and Built in 2021
      and Implementing Housing Element Programs, Including an Update on Progress
      Implementing City Council Housing Policy Priorities. Case No. P21-003 (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Alexis Captanian, Housing
      Program Analyst and Michaela O’Brien, Building & Planning Intern who presented the Staff
      Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Grace Geraghty, Responsible Growth, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, David
      Smith, Sunny Lee

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report.


                                                                                             4
      AYES:   Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:       None

      Accepted report

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
      Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Project Funding
      for the Fiscal Year 2022-23 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors (CD)

      Jacob Noonan, Housing Program Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Staff, including Molly Kron, Marin County Housing and Federal Grants Senior Planner,
      responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:       None

      Resolution 15048 - Resolution Recommending Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
      Project Funding for the Fiscal Year 2022-23 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors

   b. Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PHLA)
      Resolution Recommending Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Project Funding
      for the Fiscal Year 2022-23 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors (CD)

      Jacob Noonan, Housing Program Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Staff, including Aline Tanielian, Marin County Planner, responded to questions from
      Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Johnson Reynolds, Cory Hiraga, Eden Housing

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.




                                                                                       5
      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

      Resolution 15049 - Resolution Recommending Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA)
      Project Funding for the Fiscal Year 2022-23 to the Marin County Board of Supervisors

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:18 p.m.


                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         6
