                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2021


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                 CLOSED SESSION AT 5:00 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cs-2021-04-19
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                          ID: 817-829-3389#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
           Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
       Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
       Carmen Valdez, and Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2021-04-19
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                     ID: 899-2635-9885#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:07 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the announcement of City/County
initiatives for gun safety, Earth Day and a water conservation pledge, Ramadan and a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be streamed live to
YouTube and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or
through Zoom or YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation on
the telephone, Zoom and YouTube.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Correspondence in real-time through YouTube, Zoom or telephone
   • Kate Powers, Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, recommended City Council
     advocacy for SMART Pathway Gap Closure in North San Rafael
   • Justin Barnett, addressed the City Council regarding the Transit Center Update

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19, including American Rescue Plan update
    • Earth Day Projects:
          • On April 22, BID Clean and Green Day – 10 to noon
          • On April 24, Litter Cleanups – 10 to noon
          • On April 24, Clear Ivy, Weeds and Litter – 9 to noon
    • Project Homekey update

                                                                                            2
   •   On April 24, National Drug Take Back Day at Public Safety Center – 10 to 2
   •   Library services update
   •   Library’s 21-Day Race and Equity Challenge update
   •   On April 30, Special City Council Meeting at 2 – First Draft of Goals and Objectives for Fiscal
       Year 21-22

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on two Central Marin Sanitation Agency meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on San Rafael City/School Liaison Committee and Micro
           Grid meetings.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Homelessness and Las Gallinas Watershed Council
           meetings.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Climate Action Plan Quarterly Forum and
           Marin Clean Energy meetings.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on a Transportation Authority of Marin - Safe Routes to Schools
           meeting.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Councilmember Hill provided comments on Item H. Fire Station 54 Design Revisions.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      April 5, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Measure E Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee Appointments
      Approve Appointments of John Erdmann, Camille Harris and Braydan Young to the
      Measure E Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee to the End of November
      2024 Due to the Expiration of Terms of John Erdmann, Gladys Gilliland and Cyr Miller
      (CC)
      Approved Appointments

   c. Housing Element Update
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Professional Services
      Agreements with: 1) Barry J. Miller FAICP, in a Not-To-Exceed Amount of $124,745;

                                                                                               3
      and 2) Baird + Driskell Community Planning, in a Not-To-Exceed Amount of $50,000,
      to Prepare the Housing Element Update (2023-2031) (CD)
      Resolution 14899 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute Professional Services
      Agreements with: 1) Barry J. Miller FAICP, in a Not-To-Exceed Amount of $124,745; and 2)
      Baird + Driskell Community Planning, in a Not-To-Exceed Amount of $50,000, to Prepare the
      Housing Element Update (2023-2031)

  d. Fire Department Dispatch Services
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a First Amendment to the
     Existing Agreement for Professional Services with the County of Marin for Fire
     Department Dispatch Services (FD)
     Resolution 14900 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a First Amendment
     to the Existing Agreement for Professional Services with the County of Marin for Fire
     Department Dispatch Services

  e. City Quarterly Investment Report
     Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
     March 31, 2021 (Fin)
     Accepted report

  f. Pickleweed Advisory Committee
     Resolution Adopting New Bylaws of the Pickleweed Advisory Committee (LR)
     Resolution 14901 - Resolution Adopting New Bylaws of the Pickleweed Advisory Committee

  g. Francisco Boulevard West - Rice Drive to Second Street Project
     Accept Completion of the Francisco Boulevard West – Rice Drive to Second Street
     Project (City Project No. 11364), and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of
     Completion (PW)
     Accepted Notice of Completion

   h. Fire Station 54 Design Revisions
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment to the
      Professional Services Agreement with Loving Campos Associates, Architects, Inc. for
      Additional Services Related to the Redesign of Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects (Fire
      Station 54 and 55) and to Extend the Term of the Contract by an Additional Eighteen
      Months (PW)
      Resolution 14902 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First Amendment
      to the Professional Services Agreement with Loving Campos Associates, Architects, Inc. for
      Additional Services Related to the Redesign of Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects (Fire Station
      54 and 55) and to Extend the Term of the Contract by an Additional Eighteen Months

AYES:     Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:        None



                                                                                                 4
SPECIAL PRESENTATION
6. Special Presentation:

   a. Presentation on Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority (MWPA) by MWPA Executive Director
      Mark Brown

      Mark Brown, MWPA Executive Director gave a presentation.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Belle Cole, Ecologically Sound Practices Partnership

      Councilmembers provided comments.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Transit Center Update
      Informational Update from Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District
      Regarding the New Downtown San Rafael Transit Center (PW)

      Councilmember Hill acknowledged that his father is a member of the Board of Directors for
      Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District. City Attorney Rob Epstein clarified
      that after speaking with Councilmember Hill, there is no legal conflict under the Political
      Reform Act or otherwise, in this matter tonight.

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced staff from Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and
      Transportation District (GGBHTD) who presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Justin Barnett, Linzy Klumpp, San
      Rafael Heritage, Lesley Simons, Amy Likover, San Rafael Heritage, Wendi Kallins, Sustainable
      Marin, Veda Florez, Metropolitan Transportation Commission Advisory Board, Kate Powers,
      Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee/Marin Conservation League, Cynthia Landecker,
      San Rafael Heritage, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

                                                                                           5
      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Accepted report

   b. Economic Recovery
      Informational Report on Business Recovery in San Rafael (ED)

      Danielle O’Leary, Director of Economic Development and Innovation presented the staff
      report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Bushey moved and Member Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      March 31, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:     Members:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Chair Kate
NOES:     Members:      None
ABSENT:   Members:      None




                                                                                         6
ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:50 p.m.

                                                       ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           7
