                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MAY 3, 2021


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                 CLOSED SESSION AT 5:00 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cs-2021-05-03
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                          ID: 894-2480-4134#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
           Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
       Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
       Carmen Valdez, and Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-05-03
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                     ID: 817-3692-0337#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included Mental Health Awareness Month, Asian
American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Wildfire Awareness Month, National Salad, Salsa
and Strawberry Month and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be streamed live to
YouTube and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or
through Zoom or YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation on
the telephone, Zoom and YouTube.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Correspondence in real-time through YouTube, Zoom or telephone
   • Wes Sitchler, Tiffany Haley, Jamie Poirier, Marlene Austin, Zachary Baron, Jill Tokutomi, Joan
   Peck, Margaret Stawowy (all City employees) addressed the City Council regarding SEIU Local
   1021 labor negotiations

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 and the City’s response update
    • Drought and water conservation update
    • Downtown Farmers Market starts TH, May 6, 5:00-8:00 p.m.
    • Wildfire Preparedness Community Workshop on TH, May 13, 5:00-7:30 p.m.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:

                                                                                            2
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a library subcommittee meeting and Point San
          Pedro Road Coalition activities.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on a preliminary meeting with Don Jeppson, ADA Access
          Advisory Committee Coordinator and attended a soft opening of new restaurant Menya
          Shono.
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Homelessness, Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority
          (MWPA), Goals and Objectives meetings and Earth Day activities.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on MCCMC Climate, MCCMC Economic
          Recovery and Marin Promise meetings and Earth Day activities.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on MCCMC Economic Recovery, Los Guilicos Shelter Village,
          Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), Marin Transit and SMART meetings.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      April 19, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Contract for SB 1383 Compliance Planning
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Contract with R3 Consulting
      Group, Inc. in an Amount Not to Exceed $155,096 for Senate Bill 1383 Planning Work
      for the Cities of San Rafael and Larkspur; Towns of Ross, Fairfax and San Anselmo;
      The Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District; and the County of Marin (CM)
      Resolution 14903 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Contract with R3
      Consulting Group, Inc. in an Amount Not to Exceed $155,096 for Senate Bill 1383 Planning
      Work for the Cities of San Rafael and Larkspur; Towns of Ross, Fairfax and San Anselmo; The
      Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District; and the County of Marin

   c. Marinwood Wildfire Prevention Services Agreement
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement
      between the City of San Rafael and the Marinwood Community Services District for
      Wildfire Prevention Services, Including Defensible Space Evaluations (FD)
      Resolution 14904 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
      Agreement between the City of San Rafael and the Marinwood Community Services District
      for Wildfire Prevention Services, Including Defensible Space Evaluations

                                                                                          3
   d. MCSTOPPP Full Trash Capture Device Project
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Agreement with Schaaf & Wheeler Consulting Civil Engineers, Inc.
      for Design and Environmental Engineering Services Associated with the MCSTOPPP
      Full Trash Capture Device Project, in an Additional Amount Not to Exceed $50,090
      (PW)
      Resolution 14905 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a First
      Amendment to the Agreement with Schaaf & Wheeler Consulting Civil Engineers, Inc. for
      Design and Environmental Engineering Services Associated with the MCSTOPPP Full Trash
      Capture Device Project, in an Additional Amount Not to Exceed $50,090

   e. Senate Bill 1, Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA): FY 2021-22
      Projects
      Resolution Approving the FY 2021-22 Projects List for Senate Bill 1: The Road Repair
      and Accountability Act (PW)
      Resolution 14906 - Resolution Approving the FY 2021-22 Projects List for Senate Bill 1: The
      Road Repair and Accountability Act

   f. Canal Neighborhood Pedestrian Improvements Project
      Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Construction
      Agreement for the Canal Neighborhood Pedestrian Improvements Project, City
      Project No. 11381, to Team Ghilotti, Inc. in the Amount of $673,141, and Authorizing
      Contingency Funds in the Amount of $86,859, for a Total Appropriated Amount of
      $760,000 (PW)
      Resolution 14907 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Construction Agreement for the Canal Neighborhood Pedestrian Improvements Project, City
      Project No. 11381, to Team Ghilotti, Inc. in the Amount of $673,141, and Authorizing
      Contingency Funds in the Amount of $86,859, for a Total Appropriated Amount of $760,000

AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting National Police Week

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Police Chief David Spiller.

      Police Chief David Spiller provided comments.

   b. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Public Service Recognition Week

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Interim HR Director Carmen Valdez.

                                                                                          4
      Interim HR Director Carmen Valdez provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. BioMarin Development Agreement
      Resolution Approving the First Anniversary Annual Report for the Executed
      Development Agreement (Ordinance 1982) Between BioMarin Pharmaceutical and
      the City of San Rafael for the Development of An Expanded San Rafael Corporate
      Center (750-790 Lindaro Street and 781-791 Lincoln Avenue and 999 3rd Street) (CD)

      Paul Jensen, Community Development Director presented the Staff Report.

      Shar Zamanpour, BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Resolution 14908 - Resolution Approving the First Anniversary Annual Report for the Executed
      Development Agreement (Ordinance 1982) Between BioMarin Pharmaceutical and the City
      of San Rafael for the Development of An Expanded San Rafael Corporate Center (750-790
      Lindaro Street and 781-791 Lincoln Avenue and 999 3rd Street)

   b. Marin History Museum Lease of Boyd Gate house
      First Introduction: Consideration of an Ordinance Approving a Lease of Real Property
      at 1125 B Street (Boyd Gate House), to the Marin History Museum (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to pass the
      Ordinance to print.

                                                                                           5
      AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

      Passed Ordinance No. 1993 to print

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Measure A Work Plan and Preliminary Capital Improvement Program
      Resolution Approving the Measure A Work Plan for Proposed Expenditure of Measure
      A Funds for July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2022; And Report on Preliminary Three-Year
      Capital Improvement Program (Fin)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced April Miller, Senior Civil Engineer who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Tarrell Kullaway, Marin County Bicycle Coalition

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

      Resolution 14909 - Resolution Approving the Measure A Work Plan for Proposed Expenditure
      of Measure A Funds for July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2022

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

     Accepted Report

   b. Marin-Sonoma Bike Share Program

                                                                                         6
   Resolution Authorizing Bolt Mobility to Operate Shared Electric Bicycles within City
   Limits and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Coordination Agreement with
   Bolt Mobility, the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, Transportation
   Authority of Marin, and Partner Agencies to Implement a Regional Bike Share
   Program (PW)

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Lauren Davini, Traffic Engineer who presented
   the Staff Report.

   Staff, including Scott McDonald, Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), responded to
   questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Sunny Lee, Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition

   Staff responded to public comments.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Resolution 14910 - Resolution Authorizing Bolt Mobility to Operate Shared Electric Bicycles
   within City Limits and Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Coordination Agreement
   with Bolt Mobility, the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, Transportation Authority of
   Marin, and Partner Agencies to Implement a Regional Bike Share Program

c. Third Street Improvements
   Resolution Accepting the Third Street Rehabilitation Project and Directing Staff to
   Request Construction Funding from the Transportation Authority of Marin (PW)

   Councilmember Hill acknowledged that he has a conflict of interest due to the proximity of
   his residence to this project. He left the meeting before this item at 9:30 p.m.

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced April Miller, Senior Civil Engineer who
   presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Belle Cole Organizing for Action
                                                                                       7
      (OFA), Jean Severinghaus, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Sunny Lee, Lisa Merigian, John
      Reynolds, Chris, Donald Herzog, Parker Day, Rodney, Rick Coates, Lauren, Greg, Sarah
      Boudreau, Sean, Matt Farber, Emily McFarland and Douglas Kelley, Dr. Geoffrey Fletcher,
      Hans, Richard and Alison Whittaker, Henry Diaz, Debra Melvin, Mike Ferro, Patrick Walsh,
      Susan, Barbara Jean Jones, John, John Anicetti, Dave Rhoads, Andres, Raoul Wertz, Theresa
      Kamler, Scott Ferguson, Mike Cass, Christopher Lish, Bill Melbostad, name withheld, Max
      Ernst, Phil Mooney, Nathan Cohen, Kate Powers, Lori

      Councilmembers provided comments. Staff responded to further questions.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       Hill

      Resolution 14911 - Resolution Accepting the Third Street Rehabilitation Project and Directing
      Staff to Request Construction Funding from the Transportation Authority of Marin

      Councilmember Hill returned to the meeting after this item at 10:38 p.m.

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:


Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:38 p.m.

                                                            ___________________________
                                                               LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                       _____________________________________
                                                                KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                               8
