                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-10-04
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 862-4798-8695# - 6:15 P.M.

    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION

    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators – Government Code Section 54957.6
          Lead Negotiator: Timothy L. Davis (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
          Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Robert Epstein, Nadine
          Hade, Sylvia Gonzalez, Susan Andrade-Wax, Catherine Quffa, Kelly Albrecht
          Employee Organization: SEIU – Childcare
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included a shout-out to Bella Bromberg as she
auditions for The Voice tonight, Domestic Violence Awareness Month, and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Victoria DeWitt, addressed the City Council requesting immediate action to adopt an
       interim Ordinance prohibiting Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) on Fremont Road.
   • Steve Thomson, addressed the City Council regarding ADUs on Fremont Road.
   • John Kramer, addressed the City Council regarding ADUs on Fremont Road.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 Update
    • Service Support Area Update
    • Prescription Drug Take Back Month
    • Senator McGuire to hold a Climate Crisis Town Hall on Wednesday, October 6 at 6:30 p.m.
    • Marin Municipal Water District to hold a Community Drought webinar on Monday, October
      11 from 5-7 p.m.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Hill reported on the League of California Cities’ Conference and Ad Hoc
           Micro Grid and Priority Setting Committee meetings.
       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Library Foundation, Transportation Authority of
           Marin, Loch Lomond Development Oversight Committee and San Rafael Sanitation
           District meetings.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Marin County Council of Mayors and
           Councilmembers (MCCMC) for Climate Action and a regular MCCMC meeting, as well
           as, a meeting with the Superintendent of the San Rafael City Schools.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Age Friendly Committee, Aging Action Initiative,
           County Homeless Policy Steering Committee and MCCMC meetings.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), MCCMC Economic
           Recovery and Marin Transit meetings.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.
                                                                                            2
Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      September 13, 2021, and Monday, September 20, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Vacancies on San Rafael Boards and Commissions
      Announcement of Vacancies on the Cannabis Industry Tax Oversight Committee and the
      Pickleweed Advisory Committee (CC)
      Received and filed

   c. Citizen of the Year 2021
      Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary Ferrario
      O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2021 (CC)
      Resolution 14978 - Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary
      Ferrario O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2021

   d. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 14979 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   e. Office of Traffic Safety Grant Approval
      Resolution Approving Use of State of California Office of Traffic Safety Grant Funds in the
      Amount of $105,000 for the “Selective Traffic Enforcement Program” (“STEP”) Grant from
      October 1, 2021 Through September 30, 2022, and Authorizing the City Manager to
      Execute a Grant Agreement and Any Other Documents Related to the Grant (PD)
      Resolution 14980 - Resolution Approving Use of State of California Office of Traffic Safety Grant
      Funds in the Amount of $105,000 for the “Selective Traffic Enforcement Program” (“STEP”) Grant
      from October 1, 2021 Through September 30, 2022, and Authorizing the City Manager to
      Execute a Grant Agreement and Any Other Documents Related to the Grant

   f. City Council Appointments to Committees
      Approve Revised City Council Appointments to Committees 2021 Appointing Maribeth
      Bushey and Eli Hill to the Ad Hoc Water Policy Committee (CC)
      Approved Appointments

   g. Job Classification and Compensation Adjustments – Update to Management Analyst Series
      and Adjust Senior Accounting Assistant Compensation
      Resolution Approving the Following Personnel Classification and Compensation
      Adjustments: (HR)
        i.   Align the Management Analyst Series, such that There is a More Logical Progression
                                                                                                3
                 When Promoting from a Management Analyst to the Senior Management Analyst
                 Level
        ii.      Create a Senior Management Analyst I and II Job Specification
       iii.      Approve Adjustment to the Senior Accounting Assistant Salary by Adopting Change
                 to the SEIU Salary Schedule
                 Resolution 14981 - Resolution Approving the Following Personnel Classification and
                 Compensation Adjustments: (HR)
              i.     Align the Management Analyst Series, such that There is a More Logical Progression
                     When Promoting from a Management Analyst to the Senior Management Analyst
                     Level
             ii.     Create a Senior Management Analyst I and II Job Specification
            iii.     Approve Adjustment to the Senior Accounting Assistant Salary by Adopting Change
                     to the SEIU Salary Schedule

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Resolution of Appreciation to Recipient of The Richard P. O’Brien and Mary
      Ferrario O’Brien Citizen of the Year Award 2021

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Shirley Fischer.

      Shirley Fischer provided comments.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Rick O’Brien, David Smith, Kim Keith-Brown, Grace Geraghty

   b. Presentation of Proclamation for National Disability Awareness Month (CD)

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Don Jeppson, Chief Building Official.

      Don Jeppson, Chief Building Official provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   c. Presentation of Proclamation for Fire Prevention Week (FD)

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Darin White, Fire Chief

      Darin White, Fire Chief provided comments.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.
                                                                                                4
   d. Presentation by Caltrans on the Harbor Bridge Project (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Jose David, Caltrans who gave a presentation.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

      Staff responded to public comment.

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Resident Engagement
      Informational Report on Findings from Interviews about Neighborhood & Resident
      Engagement in San Rafael (CM)

      Thomas Wong, Senior Management Analyst introduced Susan Clark, Common Knowledge
      who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Amy Likover, Federation of San Rafael Neighborhoods, Richard Bernstein,
      Federation of San Rafael Neighborhoods, Kim Keith-Brown, Bill Carney, Sustainable San
      Rafael, Sunny Lee, Bonnie Marmor, Pt. San Pedro Road Coalition, Victoria DeWitt, Jeff
      Rhoads, Resilient Shore

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Staff provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

   b. Transit Center Relocation Draft Environmental Impact Report
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Letter to the Golden Gate
      Bridge, Highway & Transportation District Summarizing City Comments on the San Rafael
      Transit Center Relocation Project (SRTC) Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR); File
      P21-012 (PW)

                                                                                          5
      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director and Rafat Raie, Deputy Public Works
      Director presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Linzy Klumpp, San Rafael Heritage, Sunny Lee, Leslie Simons, Bill Carney,
      Sustainable San Rafael, Jeff Rhoads, Resilient Shore

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Resolution 14982 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Letter to the
      Golden Gate Bridge, Highway & Transportation District Summarizing City Comments on the San
      Rafael Transit Center Relocation Project (SRTC) Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR); File
      P21-012

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to add
      additional language to the resolution based on the discussion of their finding that the Draft
      Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) is fundamentally inadequate.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

PUBLIC HEARING
8. Public Hearing:

   a. Traffic Mitigation Fee (TMF) Increase – 2040 General Plan
      Resolution to Update the Citywide Traffic Mitigation Fee as Recommended by the 2040
      General Plan Report Titled “City of San Rafael Transportation Fee Nexus Report” (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Rafat Raie, Deputy Public Works Director who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.
                                                                                             6
       AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

       Resolution 14983 - Resolution to Update the Citywide Traffic Mitigation Fee as Recommended
       by the 2040 General Plan Report Titled “City of San Rafael Transportation Fee Nexus Report”

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
City Attorney Rob Epstein adjourned the meeting in honor of Alfred “Fred” Panacci.

Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 11:25 p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                    _____________________________________
                                                              KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                            7
