                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-10-18
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 899-2635-9885#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz

    Absent:           Councilmember Llorens Gulati

    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 884-5199-9092# - 6:15 P.M.
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session items.
       Councilmember Hill recused himself and left the Closed Session at 6:17 p.m. He returned at the
       start of the regular meeting at 7:01 p.m.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Legal Counsel
          Anticipated Litigation (Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(4))
          Number of Potential Cases: One

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Llorens Gulati.
City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included the recent rain, a water conservation
reminder, Halloween trick-or-treating downtown this Saturday 1-3 p.m. and a land
acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Susan W., addressed the City Council regarding a recent Planning Commission assisted
     living development resolution adoption.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Caltrans closure of the US 101 northbound Central San Rafael off-ramp due to the
      replacement of the Caltrans bridge construction from Friday, October 22 at 10 p.m. through
      Monday, October 25 at 5 a.m.
    • Halloween trick-or-treating downtown Saturday from 1-3 p.m., Día de los Muertos alters in
      store fronts and Day of the Dead car parade starting at 3 p.m.
    • Feedback survey on the County’s proposed reusable food ware Ordinance
    • The passing of City employee Ann Bauer

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency and Loch Lomond
          Marina Oversight Committee meetings.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on City/School Liaison Committee and Priority Setting
          Committee meetings.
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on MCCMC Homeless, Homeless Policy Steering
          Committee and upcoming Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority meetings.

6.a Presentation of Funding for the Library by Assemblymember Levine (LR) was advanced on the
Agenda and heard at this time.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate held item 5.e from the Consent Calendar.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar, excluding item 5.e.

                                                                                          2
AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, October
      4, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee Appointments
      Approve Reappointment of Phyllis Brinckerhoff and Appointment of Braydan Young to the
      Special Library Parcel Tax Oversight Committee to the End of July 2025 Due to the
      Expiration of Terms of Phyllis Brinckerhoff and Peter Lee (CC)
      Approved appointments

   c. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 14984 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   d. B Street Culvert Replacement Project
      Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Construction
      Agreement for B Street Culvert Replacement Project, City Project No. 11380 to Maggiora
      & Ghilotti, Inc. in the Amount of $273,273 and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the
      Amount of $46,727 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $320,000 (PW)
      Resolution 14985 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Construction Agreement for B Street Culvert Replacement Project, City Project No. 11380 to
      Maggiora & Ghilotti, Inc. in the Amount of $273,273 and Authorizing Contingency Funds in the
      Amount of $46,727 for a Total Appropriated Amount of $320,000

   e. Consultant Services for Canal Community-Based Transportation Plan
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
      Professional Services with Fehr & Peers for the Preparation of the Canal Community-Based
      Transportation Plan (CBTP) in an Amount Not to Exceed $79,750 and a Funding
      Agreement with Transportation Authority of Marin (“TAM”) in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $66,230 (PW)

      This item was held from the Consent Calendar

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve item 5.e on the
      Consent Calendar.
                                                                                            3
      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 14987 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
      Agreement for Professional Services with Fehr & Peers for the Preparation of the Canal
      Community-Based Transportation Plan (CBTP) in an Amount Not to Exceed $79,750 and a
      Funding Agreement with Transportation Authority of Marin (“TAM”) in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $66,230

   f. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      September 30, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   g. Continuing City Loans from Centertown Project at 855 C Street
      Resolution Agreeing to Accept a New $909,876 Promissory Note from Centertown II, LP,
      Representing the Remaining Obligations Under Two Outstanding Promissory Notes from
      Centertown Associates, Ltd., and Related Matters (ED)
      Resolution 14986 - Resolution Agreeing to Accept a New $909,876 Promissory Note from
      Centertown II, LP, Representing the Remaining Obligations Under Two Outstanding Promissory
      Notes from Centertown Associates, Ltd., and Related Matters

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Funding for the Library by Assemblymember Levine (LR)

      This item was advanced on the agenda and heard before the Consent Calendar.

      Assemblymember Marc Levine provided comments.

      Mayor Kate displayed the check from the State and provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   b. Presentation of Beacon Award by the Institute for Local Government (CM)

      Nikita Sinha, Institute of Local Government gave a presentation.

      Mayor Kate displayed the plaque from the Institute and provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael

PUBLIC HEARINGS
7. Public Hearings:

   a. Urgency Ordinance Regarding Accessory Dwelling Units
                                                                                          4
      An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael Establishing a
      Temporary Moratorium on Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
      on Properties Accessed Solely from Certain Hillside Streets Within City of San Rafael, and
      Declaring the Urgency Thereof (CD)

      Ali Giudice, Community Development Director introduced Jacob Noonan, Housing Program
      Manager who presented the Staff Report.
      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Victoria DeWitt, John Reynolds

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the urgency
      ordinance.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Llorens Gulati

      Adopted Urgency Ordinance 2001 - An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San
      Rafael Establishing a Temporary Moratorium on Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory
      Dwelling Units on Properties Accessed Solely from Certain Hillside Streets Within City of San
      Rafael, and Declaring the Urgency Thereof

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. City of San Rafael Essential Facilities Construction Project – Fire Stations 54 and 55:
      City of San Rafael Essential Facilities Construction Project – Fire Stations 54 and 55: (PW)

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Fabiola Guillen-Urfer, Senior Project Manager
      who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

         i.   Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Construction
              Contract to Wickman Development and Construction, Inc. for the City of San Rafael
              Essential Facilities Construction Project – Fire Stations 54 and 55, in the Amount of
              $8,809,000, and Authorizing Construction Contingency Funds in the Amount of
              $880,900, for a Total Appropriated Amount of $9,689,000

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.


                                                                                            5
      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 14988 - Resolution Awarding and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Construction Contract to Wickman Development and Construction, Inc. for the City of San Rafael
      Essential Facilities Construction Project – Fire Stations 54 and 55, in the Amount of $8,809,000,
      and Authorizing Construction Contingency Funds in the Amount of $880,900, for a Total
      Appropriated Amount of $9,689,000

        ii.   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services
              Agreement with Loving Campos Associates Architects, Inc. for Construction
              Administration, Scheduling, and Additional Services for Phase 2 Essential Facilities
              Projects – Fire Stations 54 and 55, in the Amount of $280,300

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Llorens Gulati

      Resolution 14989 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services
      Agreement with Loving Campos Associates Architects, Inc. for Construction Administration,
      Scheduling, and Additional Services for Phase 2 Essential Facilities Projects – Fire Stations 54
      and 55, in the Amount of $280,300

   b. SEIU Local 1021 Child Care Successor Memorandum of Understanding
      Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
      Compensation and Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 Child Care (November 1, 2021
      Through October 31, 2024) (HR)

      Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the report and
      direct staff to return with resolution adopting MOU.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:            Llorens Gulati

      Accepted report and directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Member Kertz moved and Member Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.
                                                                                                 6
1. Consent Calendar:

   a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      September 30, 2021 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Members:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz & Chair Kate
NOES:   Members:       None
ABSENT: Members:       Llorens Gulati

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting in honor of Ann Bauer, Volunteer Program Assistant at 8:39
p.m.



                                                          ___________________________
                                                            LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                  _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                          7
