                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, JUNE 21, 2021


                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                 CLOSED SESSION AT 5:00 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cs-2021-06-21
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 886 9407 0354

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:
       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
          Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
          Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
       Carmen Valdez, and Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-06-21
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                     ID: 899 2635 9885

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included elevating positive community engagement
going forward, last meeting for Director of Homeless Planning and Outreach Andrew Hening and
a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process for Spanish interpretation tonight. She informed
the community that the meeting would be streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and
members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom.
She explained the process for community participation on the telephone or through Zoom. Also,
City Clerk Lara announced that the City is preparing a hybrid virtual public meeting model and
informed the community of the public comment modifications for City Council and Planning
Commission meetings, as of June 15th.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through Zoom or on telephone
   • Pam Reaves addressed the City Council regarding the Planning Commission Appointment
       item.
   • Victoria DeWitt addressed the City Council regarding the Planning Commission
       Appointment item.
   • Shirley Fischer addressed the City Council regarding the Planning Commission
       Appointment item.
   • M. Anne Hussong addressed the City Council regarding traffic concerns on Laurel Place and
       Robert Dollar Drive.
   • Susan Adler addressed the City Council regarding safety and traffic concerns in Boyd Park
       and Laurel neighborhood.
   • David Smith addressed the City Council regarding Boards & Commissions application
       process.
   • Rita Channon addressed the City Council regarding the Boyd Park homeless encampment.


                                                                                            2
CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 and the City’s response update
    • Drought update
    • 9th consecutive year for the City to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
       Financial Reporting (from The Government Finance Officers Association of the US and
       Canada)
    • Boards and Commissions vacancies

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Dining Under the Lights, as well as, Central Marin
           Sanitation Agency and Loch Lomond Development Oversight Committee meetings.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on the upcoming Parks & Recreation Master Plan process
           and an upcoming Association of Bay Area Government (ABAG) meeting.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on Age-Friendly Initiative, homelessness and Marin
           Wildfire Prevention Authority (MWPA) meetings.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Canal Policy Working Group meeting,
           Pickleweed Advisory Committee interviews and a Transportation Authority of Marin
           (TAM) meeting.
       •   Mayor Kate reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, Marin Recovers, SMART and
           homelessness meetings.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate held items 5.b, 5.c and 5.g from the Consent Calendar.

Mayor Kate invited public comment on the remainder of the Consent Calendar; however, there was
none.

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the remainder of
the Consent Calendar.

AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
      June 7, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted
                                                                                            3
b. Planning Commission Appointment
   Approve Appointment of Camille Harris to Fill One Four-Year Term to the End of June
   2025 on the Planning Commission (CC)

   This item was held from the Consent Calendar (and heard afterwards).

   Lindsay Lara, City Clerk presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Scott Frerich, Victoria DeWitt

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve
   appointment.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

   Approved appointment

c. Pickleweed Advisory Committee Appointments
   Approve Appointments of Kate Sprague, Louise Yost, Rosa Vasquez and Nancy
   Palacios to Fill Four Four-Year Terms to the End of December 2024 on the Pickleweed
   Advisory Committee Due to the Expiration of Terms of Jenny Broering, Louise Yost
   and Lieu Phan and the Creation of Two Additional Positions on the Pickleweed
   Advisory Committee (CC)

   This item was held from the Consent Calendar (and heard afterwards).

   Lindsay Lara, City Clerk presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve
   appointments.

   AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

                                                                                       4
   Approved appointments

d. Statement of Economic Interests Annual Filings
   Report on Fair Political Practices Commission Form 700, Statement of Economic
   Interests, 2020 Annual Filings, For Section 87200 Filers and Designated Employees,
   Including Consultants, Design Review Board, And Park and Recreation Commission
   (CC)
   Accepted Report

e. Liability Claims Administration Services
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with George Hills
   Company for the Provision of Third-Party Liability Claims Administration Services for
   a Three-Year Period, in an Amount Not to Exceed $299,800 (CA)
   Resolution 14933 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement with
   George Hills Company for the Provision of Third-Party Liability Claims Administration Services
   for a Three-Year Period, in an Amount Not to Exceed $299,800

f. Crime Analyst Services
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Renew an Agreement for Crime Analysis
   Services with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., for One Year, in an Amount Not to Exceed
   $143,799, And Appropriating This Amount from The Safety Grant Fund to Support
   the Agreement (PD)
   Resolution 14934 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Renew an Agreement for
   Crime Analysis Services with LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc., for One Year, in an Amount Not
   to Exceed $143,799, And Appropriating This Amount from The Safety Grant Fund to Support
   the Agreement

g. Third Street Rehabilitation – Contract for Construction Management, Inspection, and
   Material Testing
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional
   Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering, Inc. For Construction
   Management, Inspection, And Material Testing Services Associated with The Third
   Street Rehabilitation Project, in an Amount Not to Exceed $1,168,300 Funded through
   Grants (PW)

   This item was held from the Consent Calendar (and heard afterwards).

   Bill Guerin, Public Works Director and April Miller, Assistant Public Works Director are
   present.

   Councilmember Hill acknowledged that he has a conflict of interest due to the proximity of
   his residence to this project. He left the meeting before this item at 7:53 p.m.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
                                                                                          5
      resolution.

      AYES:         Councilmembers:   Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:         Councilmembers:   None
      ABSENT:       Councilmembers:   Hill

      Resolution 14935 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a
      Professional Services Agreement with Coastland Civil Engineering, Inc. For Construction
      Management, Inspection, And Material Testing Services Associated with The Third Street
      Rehabilitation Project, in an Amount Not to Exceed $1,168,300 Funded through Grants

      Councilmember Hill returned to the meeting after this item at 7:55 p.m.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Eviction Moratorium Through September 2021
      An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael, Pursuant to
      California Government Code Section 36937(B), Barring Evictions in The City of San
      Rafael Through September 30, 2021 Due to the Public Health Emergency Arising from
      COVID-19 (CD)

      City Clerk Lindsay Lara announced the process again for Spanish interpretation.

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director and Leelee Thomas, Marin County
      Community Development Agency presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Darling Ruiz, Voces Del Canal, Aurelia Vargas, Voces Del Canal, Maria Salinas,
      Voces Del Canal, Anabel Vicente, Blanca Salinas, Voces Del Canal

      Meeting on recess from 8:58 p.m. – 9:06 p.m.

      Speakers: Rhovy Lyn Antonio, California Apartment Association, Rosa Vasquez, Voces Del
      Canal, Johnson Reynolds, Cruz Vargas, Voces Del Canal

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt
      Urgency Ordinance No. 1994, with the two modifications as presented by Staff.

                                                                                        6
   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Adopted Urgency Ordinance No. 1994 - An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the
   City of San Rafael, Pursuant to California Government Code Section 36937(b), Barring
   Evictions in the City of San Rafael Through September 30, 2021 Due to the Public Health
   Emergency Arising from COVID-19

b. Baypoint Lagoons Assessment District
   Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint Lagoons
   Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering
   the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2021-22 (PW)

   Talia Smith, Senior Management Analyst presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:       None

   Resolution 14936 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Report for the Baypoint
   Lagoons Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram Connected Therewith and Ordering
   the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2021-22

c. Point San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District
   Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point San Pedro
   Road Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram
   Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY
   2021-22 (PW)

   Talia Smith, Senior Management Analyst presented the Staff Report.

   Staff, including Al Cornwell, CSW/Stuber-Stroeh Engineering Group, responded to
   questions from Councilmembers.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

                                                                                       7
      AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

      Resolution 14937 - Resolution Confirming the Engineer’s Annual Levy Report for the Point
      San Pedro Road Median Landscaping Assessment District and the Assessment Diagram
      Connected Therewith and Ordering the Levy and Collection of Assessments for FY 2021-22

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Public Art Pilot Program Update and Mural at 3301 Kerner Boulevard
      Informational Report Regarding the San Rafael Pilot Public Art Program and the
      Installation of a Public Art Mural at 3301 Kerner Boulevard (CM)

      Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager presented the Staff Report on the San Rafael Pilot
      Public Art Program Update.

      Lorenzo Jones, San Rafael Social Justice Public Art Group provided comments.

      Kristen Jacobson, Youth in Arts provided comments.

      Talia Smith, Senior Management Analyst presented the Staff Report on the Canal Arts
      Initiative Group.

      Rich Storek, Canal Arts Initiative provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:       None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:       None

      Accepted Report

   b. Final Citywide Proposed Budget for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 and Legal Spending Limit
      i. Resolution Approving the Citywide Budget and Capital Improvement Program for
         the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 and Providing for the Appropriations and Expenditure
         of All Sums Set Forth in the Budget in the Amount of $127,789,398 (Fin);
                                                                                            8
  ii. Resolution Approving Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Gann Appropriations Limit at
      $150,770,339 (Fin)

   Nadine Hade, Finance Director presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

  Resolution 14938 - Resolution Approving the Citywide Budget and Capital Improvement
  Program for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 and Providing for the Appropriations and Expenditure
  of All Sums Set Forth in the Budget in the Amount of $127,789,398

   Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
   resolution.

   AYES:     Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:     Councilmembers:      None
   ABSENT:   Councilmembers:      None

   Resolution 14939 - Resolution Approving Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Gann Appropriations Limit
   at $150,770,339

c. Approval of the New Memorandum of Understanding with San Rafael and San Rafael
   Police Association (SRPA)
   Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation
   and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Association (SRPA) (July 1, 2021
   Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

   Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
   resolution.


                                                                                     9
      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Resolution 14940 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
      Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Police Association (SRPA) (July 1, 2021
      Through June 30, 2024)

   d. Successor Memorandum of Understanding Between the City of San Rafael and San
      Rafael Firefighters’ Association
      Discussion and Consideration of a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to
      Compensation and Working Conditions for San Rafael Firefighters’ Association (July
      1, 2021 Through June 30, 2024) (HR)

      Sylvia Gonzalez, HR Operations Manager presented the Staff Report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to direct staff to return
      with resolution adopting MOU.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Directed staff to return with resolution adopting MOU

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:58 p.m.

                                                              ___________________________
                                                                 LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                               APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                      _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                              10
