                                                 MINUTES

                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2026

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-2
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 860-6190-5675#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Vice Mayor Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       Acting City Manager Paul Navazio
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that reportable action was taken on one of the three
    matters heard in the Closed Session earlier that evening. Pursuant to GC 54957.1(a)(2), the Council
    voted unanimously to authorize the City Attorney’s Office to initiate litigation against a defendant.
    Also, he reported there was no reportable action taken in the Closed Sessions held on Monday,
    February 9, 2026 or Wednesday, February 11, 2026.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, acknowledging
    Finance Director Paul Navazio for graciously stepping into the role of Acting City Manager,
    adjourning the meeting tonight in honor of Don Swartz and Ewen McKechnie, committing
    collectively on listening and showing respect for each other for tonight’s agenda and a land
    acknowledgment.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 10 MINUTES
None.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
1. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

Mayor Kate moved City Manager and City Councilmember Reports to the end of the meeting.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
2.e removed from the City Council meeting agenda at the request of staff.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Gregory Andrew

Staff responded to questions from public comment.

Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Hil seconded to approve the remainder of Consent
Calendar.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

2. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special, Closed Session and Regular City Council Meetings of
      February 2, 2026, Closed Session City Council Meeting of February 9, 2026, and the Closed
      Session City Council Meeting and Special City Council Meeting of February 11, 2026 (CC)
      Approved Minutes as submitted

   b. 350 Merrydale Road Interim Shelter
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Professional Services Agreement
      with Swinerton Management & Consulting (Swinerton) to Provide Project Management
      and Construction Management Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $229,703 and an
      Amendment to a Professional Services Agreement with LCA Architects to Provide Design
      Services in the Amount Not to Exceed $207,250 for a Total Contract Amount of $280,750,
      and Authorizing a Supplemental Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget Appropriation in the Amount
      of $510,453 Provided Through the Encampment Resolution Fund Round 3 Grant (Fund
      281) (CM)
      Adopted Resolution 15509

   c. Approval of Final Subdivision Map for 709 C Street Four-Unit Condominium Project


                                                                                          2
      Resolution Approving the Final Subdivision Map for the 709 C Street Development for
      Condominium Purposes (PW)
      Adopted Resolution 15510

   d. Peacock Gap Park Playground Improvement Project Completion
      Accept Completion of the Peacock Gap Park Playground Improvement Project, City
      Project No. 11436, and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted Completion and authorized the City Clerk to file the Notice of Completion

   e. Pickleweed Childcare Replacement Portable Buildings Procurement
      Resolution Accepting a Proposal From Class Leasing, LLC for the Procurement of Portable
      Buildings for the Pickleweed Childcare Replacement Portables Project, City Project No.
      C661145010, in the Amount Not to Exceed $849,606 and Authorize the City Manager to
      Execute the Purchase Agreement (Sole Source); CEQA Determination Exempt Pursuant To
      CEQA Guideline 15302 (PW)
      Mayor announced item removed from the Agenda at the request of Staff

PUBLIC HEARINGS
3. Public Hearings:

   a. Call for a Special Election to Renew the Special Library Services Parcel Tax
      Resolution Calling for a Special Municipal Election on June 2, 2026, for the Purpose of
      Submitting to the Qualified Electors of the City of San Rafael, a Measure to Extend a
      Special Library Services Parcel Tax and Updating the Senior Exemption; Authorizing and
      Requesting that the County of Marin Consolidate and Conduct the Election; Directing the
      City Attorney to Prepare an Impartial Analysis and Authorizing the Mayor and
      Councilmember Bushey to File a Ballot Argument and Rebuttal for the Measure. CEQA
      Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15061(b)(3) (CM)

      Assistant City Manager John Stefanski and Library and Recreation Director Catherine Quffa
      presented the Staff Report.

      Acting City Manager Paul Navazio clarified ballot language shown in the PowerPoint
      presentation (and in the Resolution). It should read $12.54 per unit, as opposed to $12.18
      per unit.

      Councilmember Bushey clarified that this Measure will have a different letter for the June
      election.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Al Vetere

      Staff responded to questions from public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
      Calling for a Special Municipal Election on June 2, 2026, for the Purpose of Submitting to
      the Qualified Electors of the City of San Rafael, a Measure to Extend a Special Library
                                                                                         3
       Services Parcel Tax and Updating the Senior Exemption; Authorizing and Requesting that
       the County of Marin Consolidate and Conduct the Election; Directing the City Attorney to
       Prepare an Impartial Analysis and Authorizing the Mayor and Councilmember Bushey to File
       a Ballot Argument and Rebuttal for the Measure, with the clarification provided by the
       Acting City Manager.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:               Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:               None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:               None

       Adopted Resolution 15511

b. Amendments to Municipal Code Related to Bail Schedule Repeal and Parking Regulation
     Clarification
     Ordinances: (PS)
  i.    Consideration of an Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code, to Repeal
        Chapter 5.74 Bail Schedule for Violations of the San Rafael Municipal Code; CEQA
        Determination: Exempt Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(5)

 ii.      Consideration of an Ordinance Amending San Rafael Amending Municipal Code,
          Chapter 5.48 Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets,
          to Clarify Applicability to Off-Street Parking Facilities; CEQA Determination: Exempt
          Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(5)

       Assistant Chief City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the Introduce
   the Ordinance, waive further reading, and refer to it by title only

   AYES:   Councilmembers:               Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:               None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:               None

       Introduced the Ordinance, waived further reading, and referred to it by title only

       The City Clerk read the title of the ordinance:
       An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council Amending San Rafael Municipal Code,
       to Repeal Chapter 5.74 Bail Schedule for Violations of the San Rafael Municipal Code

       Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
       Introduce the Ordinance, waive further reading, and refer to it by title only

   AYES:   Councilmembers:               Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:               None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:               None

       Introduced the Ordinance, waived further reading, and referred to it by title only
                                                                                            4
   The City Clerk read the title of the ordinance:
   An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council Amending San Rafael Amending
   Municipal Code, Chapter 5.48 Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on
   Certain Streets, to Clarify Applicability to Off-Street Parking Facilities

c. Appeals of Planning Commission Approval for Mixed-Use Development at 700 Irwin Street
   Resolutions Denying the Three Appeals of and Upholding the Planning Commission
   Determination Approving an Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED25-031) and
   Associated Conditions of Approval and a Below Market Rate (BMR) Agreement to Allow
   for the Demolition of an Existing Vacant Office Building and Development of a New Mixed-
   Use Building with 200 Residential Units and Commercial Space Located at 700 Irwin Street
   (APN 014-132-18) and Determining the Project is Statutorily Exempt from CEQA Review
   Pursuant To Public Resources Code Section 21080.66 (CED)

   Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle and Planning consultant
   Christina Ratcliffe presented the Staff Report.

   Appellant Bryant presented their appeal, the Applicant presented the project and the
   Appellant provided a rebuttal.

   Appellant Dickinson presented their appeal, the Applicant presented the project and the
   Appellant Kasbar provided a rebuttal.

   Appellant Laielen presented their appeal, the Applicant presented the project and the
   Appellant provided a rebuttal.

   Staff or the applicant responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Alezz Laielen, Name Withheld, Susan Coleman, Janet Shirley, Ted Loewenberg,
   David Levy, Annabel Diserens, Miles Smith, Name Withheld, Name Withheld, Herman
   Herrera, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Wayne Rayburn, Kalina Cloud, CPI Developers,
   Beau Blanchard, San Rafael Chamber of Commerce, Mark Galperin, Lynsey Kayser,
   Stephanie Burkhart, Dominican Neighborhood Association, Jessie Roundtree, Gerald
   Fleming, Stacy Scott, Colin Crook

   Mayor Kate called a recess at 9:29 p.m., and called the meeting back to order at 9:39 p.m.

   Speakers: Name Withheld, Anil Gupta, Name Withheld, Debbie Lawson, Leora Tanjuatco
   Ross, Andrea Valentine, Hudari Murray, Jennifer Maniar, Name Withheld, Rich Storek,
   Marianne Nannestad, Michael Williamson, Ken Dickinson, Rosie Brekke

   Chief Deputy City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara noted a clerical error that the resolution
   needed to include two exhibits, that were included in the attachments but not attached to
   the resolution: the General Plan Consistency Analysis and the Affordable Housing
   Agreement.

   Staff responded to questions from public comment.

                                                                                        5
Councilmembers provided comments.

Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the Resolution
Denying the Appeal Filed by Steven Bryant of the Planning Commission’s Approval of an
Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED25-031) to Allow for Development of a New
Mixed-Use Building with 200 Residential Units and Commercial Space Located at 700 Irwin
Street (APN 014-132-18) and Determination that the Project is Statutorily Exempt from
CEQA Review Pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 21080.66

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill & Kertz
NOES:   Councilmembers:        Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Motion passed 3-2

Adopted Resolution 15512

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the Resolution
Denying the Appeal Filed By Paul Kasbar and Ken Dickinson of the Planning Commission’s
Approval of an Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED25-031) to Allow for
Development of a New Mixed-Use Building with 200 Residential Units and Commercial
Space Located at 700 Irwin Street (APN 014-132-18) and Determination that the Project is
Statutorily Exempt From CEQA Review Pursuant to Public Resources Code Section
21080.66

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill & Kertz
NOES:   Councilmembers:        Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Motion passed 3-2

Adopted Resolution 15513

Councilmember Hill moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
Denying the Appeal Filed by Alezz Laielen of the Planning Commission’s Approval of an
Environmental and Design Review Permit (ED25-031) to Allow for Development of a New
Mixed-Use Building with 200 Residential Units and Commercial Space Located at 700 Irwin
Street (APN 014-132-18) And Determination That The Project Is Statutorily Exempt From
CEQA Review Pursuant To Public Resources Code Section 21080.66 Street (APN 014-132-
18) And Determination That The Project Is Statutorily Exempt From CEQA Review Pursuant
To Public Resources Code Section 21080.66

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

Motion passed 5-0

Adopted Resolution 15514

Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt the Resolution
                                                                                  6
   Upholding the Planning Commission Approval of and Approving an Environmental and
   Design Review Permit (ED25031), Associated Conditions of Approval, and a Below Market
   Rate (BMR) Housing Agreement, to Allow for Development of a New Mixed-Use Building
   with 200 Residential Units and Commercial Space Located at 700 Irwin Street (APN 014-
   132-18) and Determining the Project is Statutorily Exempt from CEQA Review Pursuant to
   Public Resources Code Section 21080.66, subject to the comments made by the Chief
   Deputy City Attorney, regarding Exhibits A & B to be attached (to the resolution).

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill & Kertz
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   Motion passed 3-2

   Adopted Resolution 15515

d. Appeal of Planning Commission Approval for Mixed-Use Development at 1030 3rd Street
   (Also Known As 900 A Street Project)
   Resolution Denying the Appeal of and Upholding the Planning Commission Approval of an
   Environmental and Design Review Permit for Demolition of an Existing Commercial
   Building, Construction of a New Mixed-Use Building Containing 4,000 Square Feet of
   Commercial Space and 131 Residential Units Located at 1030 3rd Street (APN 011-263-
   21), and Determining the Project is Categorically Exempt Pursuant to Section 15332 (In-
   Fill Development) of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (CED)

   Community and Economic Development Director Micah Hinkle and Planner Kristina
   Estudillo presented the Staff Report.

   Appellant Wheeler presented their appeal, the Applicant presented the project, and the
   Appellant waived their rebuttal.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to adopt the
   Resolution Denying the Appeal of and Upholding the Planning Commission Approval of an
   Environmental and Design Review Permit for Demolition of an Existing Commercial
   Building, Construction of a New Mixed-Use Building Containing 4,000 Square Feet of
   Commercial Space and 131 Residential Units Located at 1030 3rd Street (APN 011-263-
   21), and Determining the Project is Categorically Exempt Pursuant to Section 15332 (In-Fill
   Development) of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)

   AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   Adopted Resolution 15516

                                                                                       7
OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION CONTINUED
  • Name Withheld, addressed the City Council regarding sidewalk safety in East San Rafael.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   Acting City Manager Paul Navazio provided the following announcements and updates:
       • The new OpenGov permit tracking system to start Monday, February 23
       • Mobile Vending Permit Program approved a few weeks ago is up and running
       • Request for Proposals (RFP) for Northgate Specific Plan – Responses due Monday,
          March 16
       • Homelessness Subcommittee to be held Thursday, February 19, 10 a.m.
       • Park & Recreation Commission to be held Thursday, February 19, 6 p.m.
       • Police Advisory & Accountability Committee to be held Wednesday, February 25, 6 p.m.
       • Measure P Subcommittee to be held Monday, February 23, 10 a.m.

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on an East San Rafael check-in with Supervisor
          Dennis Rodoni, the East San Rafael Working Group and Marin Clean Energy (MCE).
       • Vice Mayor Kertz reported on a Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority Executive
          Committee meeting.
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a Pt. San Pedro Road safety meeting.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association annual
          meeting, the Re-Grand Opening of Double Rainbow, an Economic Development &
          Housing Subcommittee meeting and the Gateway Beautification Project.
       • Mayor Kate reported on Engine 51 Push-In.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting in memory of Don Swartz and Ewen McKechnie at 11:39 p.m.


                                                         __________________________
                                                        LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                           APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2026

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                          KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           8
