                                               MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022

                                  REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                             In-Person:
                                  San Rafael City Council Chambers
                               1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                      Participate Virtually:
                    Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2022-05-16
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                      ID: 899-2635-9885#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#
                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying
with the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held
in-person,    virtually   using    Zoom      and    is     being     streamed     to   YouTube     at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees
  • Use the sign-in sheet (optional) which allows notification of potentially exposed individuals if
      contact tracing reveals COVID-19 transmission may have occurred in a given meeting
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the
      lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Kertz
                      Councilmember Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                 City Attorney Robert Epstein
                 Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi

OPEN SESSION
1. None.

CLOSED SESSION
2. Closed Session: None.

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi
to call the roll. All members of the City Council were present.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included gratitude to City Staff, National Public
Works Week and the COVID-19 pandemic.

Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi informed the community that the in-person meeting would also
be recorded and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would
provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for
community participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Ruth Wetherow, President of Rotary Manor Resident’s Association addressed the City
     Council regarding a sinkhole at Rotary Manor. Other Rotary Manor residents including Via
     Lindbergs, Sharon Seaford, Triva Strauss, Victoria Cooper, Wayne Baker and Maria Di
     Gregorio also addressed the City Council regarding the sinkhole.
  • Salamah Locks, Marin County Commission on Aging announced their upcoming health
     forum on “Affordable Aging” to be held on Thursday, May 26 at Homeward Bound from 10
     a.m. to 2 p.m.
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.
  • Michael Wilson, Behavioral Health and Recovery Services (Marin County Adult and Aging
     Services) announced 920 Grand Avenue, a new residential treatment facility.
  • David Smith, Responsible Growth Marin addressed the City Council regarding the
     Northgate Mall Project.
  • Dr. Jei Africa, Director of Behavioral Health and Recovery Services (Marin County)
     highlighted 920 Grand Avenue, a new residential treatment facility.
  • Annika Osborn, Sustainable San Rafael, addressed the City Council regarding the use of
     natural gas (methane gas) in buildings.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Dining Under the Lights starts May 26 through September, every Thursday, 6-10 p.m.
    • Parks and Recreation Master Plan Update
    • National Public Works Week

City Attorney Rob Epstein announced Assistant City Attorney Lisa Goldfien’s retirement and
welcomed new Assistant City Attorney Genevieve Coyle.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

                                                                                        2
Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Kertz provided comments on Jewish American Heritage Month and her
          recently formed North Bay Jewish Electeds group.
      •   Councilmember Hill provided comments on Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage
          Month. He reported on the May Madness Car Show and an Intergenerational
          Collaboration and the Next Generation of City Leadership event held in Sacramento.
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Central Marin Sanitation Agency, San Rafael
          Sanitation Agency and Loch Lomond Oversight Committee meetings. She noted an
          upcoming Dominican community meeting on parking adjustments to be held on Tuesday,
          May 24 at 6:30 p.m.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the May Madness Car Show, as well as, Canal
          Policy Working Group, San Rafael Park and Services feedback, Economic Development
          Subcommittee meetings and the 2022 Leaders of the North Bay Awards event.
      •   Mayor Kate noted National Gun Violence Awareness Day and announced an upcoming
          Marin Gun Buy-Back event to be held on Saturday, June 4, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., as well as, a
          SMART meeting and a St. Vincent de Paul’s Ribbon Cutting event for a new case
          management office.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Sparky Spaeth and Diana Lopez, Age-Friendly San Rafael Community Partnership, Eva
Chrysanthe

Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, May 2,
      2022 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15066 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of City Boards and
      Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic
                                                                                           3
c. Smoking Ordinance Amendments
   Final Adoption of Ordinance 2008: An Ordinance Amending Sections 9.04.030, 9.04.090
   and 19.10.060 of the San Rafael Municipal Code Prohibiting Smoking in Open Space Year-
   Round and Requiring Designated Smoking Areas in Multi-Family Housing Complexes with
   Over 10 Units Located Within 1,000 Feet from Open Space and Undeveloped Lots in Order
   to Prevent Cigarette-Caused Fires (CC)
   Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2008

d. City of San Rafael 2022 Equity Audit
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
   Professional Services with BCT Partners for Consulting Services to Perform an Equity
   Audit of Citywide Policies, Programs, and Practices in the Amount of $170,000 (CM)
   Resolution 15067 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
   Agreement for Professional Services with BCT Partners for Consulting Services to Perform an
   Equity Audit of Citywide Policies, Programs, and Practices in the Amount of $170,000

e. Community Engagement, Equity & Housing Policy Consulting Services
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
   Professional Services with Liz Darby for Consulting Services (CM)
   Resolution 15068 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an
   Agreement for Professional Services with Liz Darby for Consulting Services

f. National Older Americans Month
   Proclamation Supporting National Older Americans Month (LR)
   Received and filed

g. National Gun Violence Awareness Day
   Proclamation Supporting National Gun Violence Awareness Day (PD)
   Received and filed

h. National Public Works Week
   Proclamation Supporting National Public Works Week (PW)
   Received and filed

i.   Jewish American Heritage Month
     Proclamation Supporting Jewish American Heritage Month (CC)
     Received and filed

j.   Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
     Proclamation Supporting Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month (HR)
     Received and filed

k. PG&E Easement Required for Third Street Improvements Project
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Deed Granting an Easement for
   Public Utility Purposes to Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PW)
   Resolution 15069 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Deed Granting an
   Easement for Public Utility Purposes to Pacific Gas and Electric Company

l.   Sun Valley Park Deed Restriction
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Deed Restriction on the City Owned
     Parcel (APN 010-071-01) for Sun Valley Park (PW)
                                                                                       4
      Resolution 15070 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Deed Restriction on
      the City Owned Parcel (APN 010-071-01) for Sun Valley Park

   m. Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements
      Accept Completion of the Francisco Boulevard East Sidewalk Improvements Project (City
      Project No. 11349) and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted completion and authorized City Clerk to file NOC

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting Mental Health Awareness Month (PD)

      Vice Mayor Kertz presented the proclamation.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Dr. Jei Africa, Director of Behavioral Health and Recovery
      Services (Marin County)

PUBLIC HEARING
7. Public Hearing:

   a. Amendment to San Rafael’s Building Code to Require Replacement of Wood Roofing
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2009: An Ordinance Amending Chapters 12.200 and 12.255
      of the San Rafael Municipal Code to Make Local Amendments to California Building Codes
      to Require that Wood Roofing be Replaced by May 31, 2027 (FD)

      Quinn Gardner, Deputy Director of Emergency Management presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt Ordinance No.
      2009.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2009

                                                                                          5
   b. BioMarin Development Agreement
      Resolution Approving the 2nd Anniversary Annual Report for the Executed Development
      Agreement (Ordinance No. 1982) Between BioMarin Pharmaceutical and the City of San
      Rafael for the Development of an Expanded San Rafael Corporate Center (750-790 Lindaro
      Street and 781-791 Lincoln Avenue and 999 3rd Street); Case No.: P22-004 (CD)

      Alicia Giudice, Community Development Director presented the Staff Report.

      Staff, including Shar Zamanpour, BioMarin responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15071 - Resolution Approving the 2nd Anniversary Annual Report for the Executed
      Development Agreement (Ordinance No. 1982) Between BioMarin Pharmaceutical and the City
      of San Rafael for the Development of an Expanded San Rafael Corporate Center (750-790
      Lindaro Street and 781-791 Lincoln Avenue and 999 3rd Street); Case No.: P22-004

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS:
8. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Public Art Program and Formation of the Public Art Review Board
      Resolution Approving the Formation of the Public Art Review Board (LR)

      Cristine Alilovich, Assistant City Manager and Catherine Quffa, Library & Recreation
      Director presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Kristen Jacobson, Youth in Arts, Eva Chrysanthe

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Resolution 15072 - Resolution Approving the Formation of the Public Art Review Board
                                                                                             6
   b. Preliminary Capital Improvement Program
      Informational Report on Preliminary Three-Year Capital Improvement Program (PW/Fin)

      April Miller, Assistant Public Works Director/City Engineer presented the Staff Report.

      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided comments.

      Rob Epstein, City Attorney provided clarifying comments regarding potential conflicts of
      interest.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Salamah Locks, Sunny Lee

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Kertz moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

      Accepted report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:52 p.m.


                                                         ___________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2022

                                                   _____________________________________
                                                             KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                           7
