                                                 MINUTES

                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2025

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                          Watch online: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2025-02-18
                               or www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                  Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                        ID: 860-6190-5675#
                        One Tap Mobile: +16694449171,,86061905675# US

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Vice Mayor Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Councilmember Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None.
    Also Present:       City Manager Cristine Alilovich
                        Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, especially the first
    responders and Department of Public Works for keeping the community safe, assured that the City
    continues to work with funding partners and local agencies following recent federal directives,
    encouraged community members to sign up for the City’s newsletter SnapShot, and a land
    acknowledgment.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
    and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
    comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session: - None.
CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   City Manager Cristine Alilovich reported on:
      • Police Advisory & Accountability Committee meeting to be held Wednesday, February
         19th at 6:00 p.m. at City Hall with the topic of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
         and to include Spanish interpretation
      • 2nd & 4th Street Improvements community meeting to be held Thursday, February 27th
         at 6:00 p.m. at City Hall
      • Wildfire Safety Meetings were held and videos could be located on the website with
         other important information
      • New free art exhibit at the new Marin Museum of Contemporary Art to be held through
         March 30th, Wednesdays through Fridays from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and Saturdays
         and Sundays from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      • Black Labor Pioneers in Marin County event in honor of Black History Month to be held
         Saturday, February 22nd at 11:00 a.m. at the 4th Street Downtown Library Popup
      • Age Friendly event for people 90 or over to be held Sunday, March 2nd at 2:30 p.m. at
         the San Rafael Community Center

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Bushey reported on a meeting with the Black Canyon Dominican Valley
          Homeowners Association and a Central Marin Sanitation Agency meeting.
       • Councilmember Kertz reported on a Marin Wildfire Executive Committee meeting, a
          Wildfire Safety Meeting, Seeds of Hope, a Homeless Policy Steering Committee
          meeting, and a Homelessness and Housing Subcommittee meeting.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a Finance Subcommittee meeting, a Marin County
          Council of Mayor & Councilmembers meeting, and a Gerstle Park Neighborhood
          Association meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on a Supervisor Dennis Rodoni quarterly
          meeting, an East San Rafael Working Group meeting on parking permits, and a Master
          Gardeners class.
       • Mayor Kate reported on a Transportation Authority of Marin meeting on federal funding
          on local projects, a Homelessness and Housing Subcommittee meeting, and a Marin
          Coalition meeting.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there were none.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Regular City Council Meeting of February 3, 2025 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

                                                                                            2
   b. Illegal Dumping Mitigation Services Agreement
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Professional Services Agreement
      with Gigantic Idea Studios for Illegal Dumping Mitigation in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $100,000 and Appropriating $100,000 from the General Fund to the Sustainability Division
      Budget (CM)
      Resolution 15369 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter into a Professional Services
      Agreement with Gigantic Idea Studios for Illegal Dumping Mitigation in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $100,000 and Appropriating $100,000 from the General Fund to the Sustainability Division
      Budget

   c. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2024 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   d. Point San Pedro Median Landscaping Services
      Resolution Waiving Bidding Requirements for Services and Authorizing the City Manager
      to Enter into an Agreement with Gardeners’ Guild, Inc. for Point San Pedro Median
      Landscaping Services for an Initial Two-Year Period, with the Option to Extend the
      Agreement Up to Four More Years, For Up to a Six-Year Term, and a Total Contract
      Amount Not to Exceed $680,192 (PW)
      Resolution 15370 - Resolution Waiving Bidding Requirements for Services and Authorizing the
      City Manager to Enter into an Agreement with Gardeners’ Guild, Inc. for Point San Pedro Median
      Landscaping Services for an Initial Two-Year Period, with the Option to Extend the Agreement
      Up to Four More Years, For Up to a Six-Year Term, and a Total Contract Amount Not to Exceed
      $680,192

   AYES:          Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:          Councilmembers:       None
   ABSENT:        Councilmembers:       None

PUBLIC HEARINGS
5. Public Hearings:

   a. Change in Speed Limits on Twenty-Four San Rafael Roadway Segments
      Introduce an Ordinance Regarding Speed Limit Change on 24 San Rafael Roadway
      Segments Pursuant to Sections 22357 and 22358 of the California Vehicle Code; California
      Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Determination: Exempt Pursuant to State CEQA
      Guideline 15061(b)(3) (PW)

      Assistant Public Works Director Joanna Kwok presented the Staff Report along with Jimmy
      Jessup from Parametrix.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Sharna Diemer, Shinji Sakai-Egi, Name Withheld

      Staff responded to questions from the community.
                                                                                                    3
      City Council provided comments.

      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to waive further
      reading of the Ordinance and refer to it by title only, and introduce the Ordinance.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

     Waived further reading of the Ordinance and referred to it by title only

     The City Clerk read the title of the Ordinance:
     An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Rafael Regarding Speed Limit Change on 24
     San Rafael Roadway Segments Pursuant to Sections 22357 and 22358 of the California Vehicle
     Code

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
6. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Police Advisory and Accountability Committee Annual Report 2024
      Accept the Police Advisory and Accountability Committee Annual Report for 2024 (PD)

      Police Chief Spiller introduced Lieutenant Scott Eberle and 2024 Police Advisory &
      Accountability Committee Chair 2024 Paula Kamena who presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Salamah, Name Withheld, Al Vetere

      Staff responded to questions from the community.

      City Council provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
      Police Advisory and Accountability Committee Annual Report for 2024.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

      Accepted report

   b. Fiscal Year 2024-25 Mid-Year Budget Update and Personnel Changes
      Fiscal Year 2024-25 Mid-Year Budget Update and a Resolution Approving Fiscal Year
      2024-25 Mid-Year Personnel Changes, Updates to Applicable Salary Schedules, and
      Appropriating Funding for a New Program Analyst Position within the Sustainability
      Division (Fin)

                                                                                                4
   Finance Director Paul Navazio presented the Staff Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speakers: Monica Fong-Gray, Sharna Diemer , Al Vetere

   Staff responded to questions from the community.

   City Council provided comments.

   Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the fiscal year
   2024-25 Mid-Year Budget Update presenting revenue and expenditure results through the
   second quarter of the current fiscal year (through the accounting period ended December
   31, 2024), and authorize Mid-Year Budget supplemental budget appropriations totaling
   $672,411 across selective funds.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

   Accepted the fiscal year 2024-25 Mid-Year Budget Update presenting revenue and expenditure
   results through the second quarter of the current fiscal year (through the accounting period ended
   December 31, 2024), and authorized mid-year budget supplemental budget appropriations
   totaling $672,411 across selective funds

   Vice Mayor Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
   approving fiscal year 2024-25 mid-year personnel changes, updates to applicable salary
   schedules, and appropriating funding for a new Program Analyst position within the
   Sustainability Division.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:            Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
  NOES:   Councilmembers:            None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:            None

   Resolution 15371 - Resolution Approving Fiscal Year 2024-25 Mid-Year Personnel Changes,
   Updates to Applicable Salary Schedules, and Appropriating Funding for a New Program Analyst
   Position within the Sustainability Division

c. Extending Cannabis Business Tax Rate Temporary Reduction
   Resolution Extending Cannabis Industry Tax Rate of Two (2) Percent of Annual Gross
   Receipts for Cannabis Delivery Businesses, for the Period of January 1, 2025, Through
   December 31, 2026 (CED)

   Assistant Community and Economic Development Director Greg Minor presented the Staff
   Report.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.
                                                                                                   5
      Speakers: Monica Gray-Fong, Nurit Raphael, ONA, Name Withheld, Al Vetere

      City Council provided comments.

      Assistant City Attorney Andrea Visveshwara provided an alternative option to the
      recommended action to amend the last recital of the resolution to read “City Council finds
      lowering the gross receipts tax rate to 1%” and amend the Resolved section from 2% to 1%.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution
      with the modifications as outlined by the Chief Assistant City Attorney.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Amended Resolution 15372 - Resolution Extending Cannabis Industry Tax Rate of One (1)
      Percent of Annual Gross Receipts for Cannabis Delivery Businesses, for the Period of January 1,
      2025, Through December 31, 2026

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Names Withheld addressed the City Council regarding cannabis tax rates.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:12 pm.

                                                             __________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2025

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                                   6
