                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-12-06
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#
                       One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,81736920337#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate announced Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION – (669) 900-9128 ID: 815-5125-5972#– 5:30 PM
    2. Closed Session:

       a. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL—ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
          Significant exposure to litigation pursuant Government Code Section 54956.9(d)(2)
          (One potential case)

       b. CONFERENCE WITH LEGAL COUNSEL—EXISTING LITIGATION
          Government Code Section 54956.6(d)(1)
       In Re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
       United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division
       Case No. 17-MD-2804

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi
to call the roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that during the Closed Session tonight the City Council
unanimously voted to opt in as members of the Class of Public Entities impending litigation entitled
In Re National Prescription Opiate litigation, a case that’s pending in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. It is national litigation that many public
entities are participating in.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included United Against Hate Week, a virtual
Hannukah candle lighting and a land acknowledgment.

Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and
streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public
comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community
participation on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the Council regarding her visits to the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • Introduction of Marc Sabin, Homeless Program Manager
    • Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) – Affordable Housing update

Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided an update on the Bungalow Avenue project and a
recent gas leak. He responded to questions from Councilmembers.

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Albert, Name withheld, Eva Chrysanthe

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

       •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a Loch Lomond Development Oversight Committee
           meeting and an interview with the Community Media Center.
       •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Climate Action Committee and Marin Clean
           Energy (MCE) Board of Directors meetings.
       •   Councilmember Kertz reported on a Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority meeting, a Cal
           Cities update, a MCCMC Legislative meeting and a Homeless Policy Steering Committee
           meeting.
       •   Councilmember Hill reported on a Bungalow Avenue tour.

                                                                                              2
      •   Mayor Kate reported on Marin Transit, SMART, MCCMC Economic Recovery, and
          Showing Up for Racial Justice (SURJ) meetings.

Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Bill Carney, Johnson Reynolds

Mayor Kate held items 5.a and 5.d from the Consent Calendar.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar, excluding items 5.a and 5.d.

AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)

      This item was held from the Consent Calendar.

      City Manager Jim Schutz provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Resolution 15008 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City
      Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic

   b. Agency Report of Public Officials 2021
      Adoption of Agency Report of Public Official Appointments (FPPC Form 806) (CA)
      Adopted Form 806

   c. Job Classification and Compensation Adjustments in the Human Resources Department
      Resolution Approving the New Classification and Compensation of Administrative Services
      Director (HR)

                                                                                            3
     Resolution 15002 - Resolution Approving the New Classification and Compensation of
     Administrative Services Director

d. Accessory Dwelling Unit Regulations Ordinance Adoption
   Final Approval of Ordinance 2002: An Ordinance Amending Title 1 (General Provisions),
   Title 4 (Fire), Title 12 (Building Regulations), and Title 14 (Zoning Ordinance) of the San
   Rafael Municipal Code Related to Regulations for Accessory Dwelling Units, and Report
   Issued Pursuant to Government Code § 65858(d) (CD)

     This item was held from the Consent Calendar.

     City Manager Jim Schutz provided comments.

     Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to approve final
     adoption of Ordinance 2002.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

     Approved final adoption of Ordinance 2002

e. Citizens Advisory Committee on Economic Development and Affordable Housing
   Dissolution
   Resolution Dissolving the Citizen Advisory Committee (CAC) on Economic Development
   and Affordable Housing (ED)
   Resolution 15003 - Resolution Dissolving the Citizen Advisory Committee (CAC) on Economic
   Development and Affordable Housing

f. Traffic Mitigation Fees
   Annual Traffic Mitigation Fee Report - FY 2021-22 (PW)
   Accepted report

g. Annual CalRecycle Grant
   Resolution Authorizing Submittal of An Application for All CalRecycle Grants for Which
   the City of San Rafael is Eligible (PW)
   Resolution 15004 - Resolution Authorizing Submittal of An Application for All CalRecycle Grants
   for Which the City of San Rafael is Eligible

h. Memorandum of Agreement with the County of Marin to Maintain Bayside Park
   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Memorandum of Agreement
   with Marin County Defining Maintenance Responsibilities for Bayside Park (PW)
   Resolution 15005 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Memorandum of
   Agreement with Marin County Defining Maintenance Responsibilities for Bayside Park

i.   Umbrella Dredging Permit in San Rafael Consulting Services Agreement
     Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Sign a First Amendment to the
     Professional Services Agreement with Haley & Aldrich, Inc. for Additional Services in
     Coordinating the Development of an Umbrella Permit for Private Dock Dredging in the San
     Rafael Canal, in an Amount Not to Exceed $16,200 (PW)

                                                                                           4
         Resolution 15006 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Sign a First
         Amendment to the Professional Services Agreement with Haley & Aldrich, Inc. for Additional
         Services in Coordinating the Development of an Umbrella Permit for Private Dock Dredging in the
         San Rafael Canal, in an Amount Not to Exceed $16,200

   j.    Southern Heights Bridge Replacement
         Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Fourth Amendment
         to the Agreement with Mark Thomas & Company, Inc. for Slope Stability Analysis, in an
         Additional Contract Amount Not to Exceed $51,789 (PW)
         Resolution 15007 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Fourth
         Amendment to the Agreement with Mark Thomas & Company, Inc. for Slope Stability Analysis, in
         an Additional Contract Amount Not to Exceed $51,789

RECESS 7:47 – 7:52 p.m.

Mayor Kate announced that public comments would still be received for the remaining items
tonight, by email only. The Deputy City Clerk would then read these comments aloud into the
record during the public comment portion of the remaining items.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
6. Public Hearings:

   a. Marin Sanitary Service Rates and Contract for 2022
      Resolutions of the City Council of the City of San Rafael:

         Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager and Garth Schultz, R3 Consulting Group
         presented the Staff Report.

         Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

         Mayor Kate asked the Deputy City Clerk to read public comments that she received via
         email.

         Comments via email: Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Belle Cole, Organizing for Action
         (OFA) Marin, Justin Wilcock, Marin Sanitary Service

         Councilmembers provided comments.

        i.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary Service for Refuse
             and Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be Effective January 1,
             2022

         Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

         AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
         NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
         ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

         Resolution 15009 - Resolution Establishing Maximum Rates Collected by Marin Sanitary Service
         for Refuse and Recyclable Material Collection and Disposal Services, to be Effective January 1,
         2022
                                                                                                 5
     ii.   Resolution Approving a Fourth Amendment to the Amendment and Restatement of
           Collection Agreement of the City of San Rafael with Marin Sanitary Service (CM)

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

       Resolution 15010 - Resolution Approving a Fourth Amendment to the Amendment and
       Restatement of Collection Agreement of the City of San Rafael with Marin Sanitary Service

   b. Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) Assessment Annual Renewal
      Resolution Approving the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement District
      Assessment for Calendar Year 2022 (ED)

       Danielle O’Leary, Director of Economic Development and Innovation presented the Staff
       Report.

       Eda Lochte and Jed Greene, Downtown Business Improvement District (BID) provided
       comments.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

       Mayor Kate asked the Deputy City Clerk to read public comments that she received via
       email.

       Brenna Nurmi, Deputy City clerk announced that she did not receive any emails tonight for
       this item.

       Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
       resolution.

       AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
       NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
       ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

       Resolution 15011 - Resolution Approving the Downtown San Rafael Business Improvement
       District Assessment for Calendar Year 2022

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Resident Appeal of an AT&T Encroachment Permit
      Consideration of a Resident Appeal from the Issuance of an Encroachment Permit to AT&T
      to Install a Utility Cabinet in the Public Right-of-way Alongside Property Located at 109
      Bayview Street, San Rafael (PW)
                                                                                          6
      Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced Rafat Raie, Deputy Public Works Director who
      presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Rich Petovello, Appellant presented his report.

      Lisa Marano, AT&T presented her report.

      Staff provided comments.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Discussion regarding utility cabinet and different alternatives.

      Mayor Kate asked the Deputy City Clerk to read public comments that she received via
      email.

      Brenna Nurmi, Deputy City clerk announced that she did not receive any emails tonight for
      this item.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Rich Petovello, Appellant and Lisa Marano, AT&T provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to continue this item to
      the next regularly scheduled meeting on December 20, 2021.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:          None

      Item continued to December 20, 2021

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:49 p.m.



                                                           ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                             APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor


                                                                                             7
