                                              MINUTES
                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021


                          CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be streamed through YouTube Live at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael. Comments submitted via YouTube Live must be submitted
according to the directions located on the YouTube video description. The City is not responsible for
any interrupted service. To ensure the City Council receives your comments, submit written comments
to the City Clerk prior to the meeting. For more information regarding real-time public comments,
please visit our Live Commenting Pilot page at https://www.cityofsanrafael.org/live-commenting-
pilot/.

Want to listen to the meeting and comment in real-time over the phone? Call the telephone number
listed on this agenda and dial the Meeting ID when prompted. Feel free to contact the City Clerk’s
office at 415-485-3066 or by email to lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org if you have any questions.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
lindsay.lara@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

                                 CLOSED SESSION AT 5:30 P.M.
                      Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cs-2021-05-17
                      Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 845-0956-8445#

    OPEN SESSION
    1. Mayor Kate to announce Closed Session item.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Labor Negotiators - Government Code Section 54957.6
       Lead Negotiators: Timothy L. Davis and Stephanie Vollmer (Burke, Williams & Sorensen)
       Agency Designated Representatives: Jim Schutz, Cristine Alilovich, Nadine Hade, Thomas Wong,
       Carmen Valdez, and Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton
       Employee Organization: SEIU - Childcare; San Rafael Police Mid-Management Association;
       Public Employee Union, Local 1; San Rafael Firefighters’ Association; San Rafael Police
       Association; SEIU Local 1021; Western Council of Engineers; San Rafael Fire Chief Officers’
       Association; Unrepresented Mid-Management; Unrepresented Executive Management

                           REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                 Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-05-17
                 Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                           Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                     ID: 899-2635-9885#

Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
roll. All members of the City Council were present.

City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
held prior to the meeting.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included our individual humanity and how we can
best show up for each other in our community in regards to all the complex issues that we face as
a city.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be streamed live to
YouTube and members of the public would provide public comment either on the telephone or
through Zoom or YouTube live chat. She explained the process for community participation on
the telephone, Zoom and YouTube.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
Correspondence in real-time through YouTube, Zoom or telephone
   • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the City Council regarding her California Public Records Act (CPRA)
   results
   • Salamah Locks, Commission on Aging, addressed the City Council regarding the month of
   May and announced a Telehealth & Bridging the Digital Health Divide webinar to be held on
   Thursday, May 27 – 10:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
   • Rob Nieset addressed the City Council regarding a homeless encampment at Boyd Memorial
   Park
   • Victoria DeWitt addressed the City Council regarding a vacancy on the Design Review Board
   • Kenny Gatlin, Jamie Poirier, Bonnie Groshong, Name withheld, Margaret Stawowy, Marita
   Garcia, Andrew Thompson, Pam Klein (all City employees) addressed the City Council regarding
   SEIU Local 1021 labor negotiations
   • Brad Gaffney addressed the City Council regarding the homeless encampments under the
   freeway between 3rd and Mission
   • Kaico addressed the City Council regarding the homeless encampments at Boyd Park


                                                                                            2
City Attorney Rob Epstein provided comments on how Open Time for Public Expression works.
CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • COVID-19 and the City’s response update
    • Annual budget process update, including the Governor’s “May Revise,” American Rescue
       Plan, homelessness and housing
    • Bridging the Digital Divide in a Post-Pandemic Marin on Friday, May 21, 11:30 a.m. - 12:30
       p.m.
    • Downtown Summer Market every Thursday 5:00 - 8:00 p.m. and Dining Under the Lights
       every Thursday and Friday 5:00 - 9:00 p.m.

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Point San Pedro Road Coalition and two Central
          Marin Sanitation Agency meetings, as well as, a briefing from the Marin Organizing
          Committee.
      •   Councilmember Kertz reported on MCCMC Forum on Economic Development, Marin
          Wildfire Prevention Authority, Homelessness, Age-Friendly, Economic Development
          Subcommittee and Fire Safe Marin (San Rafael focused) meetings.
      •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on San Rafael Safe Routes to Schools, Canal
          Outbreak Response, Canal Policy Working Group, Baypoint neighborhood and (an
          upcoming) Climate Action Priorities update meetings.
      •   Councilmember Hill reported on meetings with Police Chief David Spiller, Digital Service
          & Open Government Director Jessica MacLeod and the West End neighborhood. Also,
          he noted Measures G & H passed (San Rafael City Schools).
      •   Mayor Kate reported on SMART, TAM Safe Routes, Homelessness, MCCMC
          Homelessness, and San Rafael Sanitation meetings, as well as, interviews for the
          Planning and Fire Commissions and the Commission on Aging.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Salamah Locks, Jason Sarris

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve the
Consent Calendar.

5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes



                                                                                           3
   Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday,
   May 3, 2021 and Special Meetings of Friday, April 30, 2021 and Monday, May 10, 2021
   (CC)
   Approved minutes as submitted

b. Residential Building Resale (RBR) Report
   Resolution Adopting an Extension of Temporary Measures for Administering the
   Residential Building Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San Rafael
   Municipal Code Title 12 (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential
   Building Record) During the High Demand Real Estate Market and COVID-19
   Pandemic (CD)
   Resolution 14912 - Resolution Adopting an Extension of Temporary Measures for
   Administering the Residential Building Record Program (“RBR Program”) Set Forth in San
   Rafael Municipal Code Title 12 (Building Regulations), Chapter 12.36 (Report of Residential
   Building Record) During the High Demand Real Estate Market and COVID-19 Pandemic

c. MIDAS Agreement Fiscal Year 2021-22
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Services Agreement
   with Marin Information and Data Access Systems (MIDAS) for Information
   Technology Services from July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2022, for An Amount Not to
   Exceed $93, 021 (DS)
   Resolution 14913 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Services
   Agreement with Marin Information and Data Access Systems (MIDAS) for Information
   Technology Services from July 1, 2021 Through June 30, 2022, for An Amount Not to Exceed
   $93, 021 (DS)

d. Servers and Storage Area Network (SAN) Replacement
   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Purchase of Servers and
   Network Storage Equipment through Xantrion, Inc. at a Cost Not to Exceed $180,000
   (DS)
   Resolution 14914 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Purchase of Servers
   and Network Storage Equipment through Xantrion, Inc. at a Cost Not to Exceed $180,000

e. 1075 Francisco Boulevard East Parcel Map Approval (Hampton Hotels)
   Resolution Approving a Parcel Map for the Merging of Four Lots to Two Lots at 1075
   Francisco Boulevard East (PW)
   Resolution 14915 - Resolution Approving a Parcel Map for the Merging of Four Lots to Two
   Lots at 1075 Francisco Boulevard East

f. Temporary Street Closure to Support Vaccination Efforts in the Canal
   Neighborhood
   Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal Alliance’s Effort to
   Provide COVID-19 Vaccinations from Saturday May 1, 2021 Through Saturday July 10,
   2021 (PW)



                                                                                       4
       Resolution 14916 - Resolution Authorizing Saturday Street Closures to Support Canal
       Alliance’s Effort to Provide COVID-19 Vaccinations from Saturday May 1, 2021 Through
       Saturday July 10, 2021

   g. IDA Townhomes (West End/IDA Street – 8 Townhomes)
      Resolution Approving Stormwater Facilities Maintenance Agreements and Final
      Subdivision Map for the IDA Townhomes Subdivision (PW)
      Resolution 14917 - Resolution Approving Stormwater Facilities Maintenance Agreements and
      Final Subdivision Map for the IDA Townhomes Subdivision

   h. Marin History Museum Lease of Boyd Gate House
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1993: Ordinance Approving a Lease of Real Property
      at 1125 B Street (Boyd Gate House), to the Marin History Museum (PW)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance No. 1993

AYES:         Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:         Councilmembers:      None
ABSENT:       Councilmembers:      None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Public Works Recognition Week and Appreciation Video

           Bill Guerin, Public Works Director introduced the Appreciation Video.

           Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation to Bill Guerin, Public Works Director.

           Bill Guerin, Public Works Director provided comments.

           Mayor Kate invited public comment.

           Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe, Jason Sarris

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report and Climate Action Priorities Update
      i. San Rafael Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report (CM)

     ii.      2021-2023 Two-Year Work Plan Priorities Report (CM)

       Cory Bytof, Sustainability Program Manager and Christine O’Rourke, Marin Climate and
       Energy Partnership (MCEP) presented the Staff Report.

       Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.
                                                                                        5
      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Carleen Cullen, Cool the Earth, Eva Chrysanthe, Chris Yalonis, VenturePad, Bill
      Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Kiki La Porta, Sustainable San Rafael & Sustainable Marin,
      Tamara Peters, Resilient Neighborhoods, Belle Cole, Organizing for Action (OFA), Jeffrey
      Rhoads, Resilient Shore

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:      Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:      Councilmembers:      None
      ABSENT:    Councilmembers:      None

      Accepted Report

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the
      report.

     AYES:       Councilmembers:      Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:       Councilmembers:      None
     ABSENT:     Councilmembers:      None

      Accepted Report

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:


Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:21 p.m.

                                                          ___________________________
                                                             LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                      _____________________________________
                                                               KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                              6
