                                                 MINUTES

                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2026

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-1
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 863-4489-1398#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Vice Mayor Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
                        Mayor Kate
    Absent:             None
    Also Present:       Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Piñon
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action was taken in the Closed Session
    held earlier this evening. As for the January 20 meeting, he announced there was a Closed Session
    to discuss the pending litigation of Worker’s Compensation Appeals Board, Claim No. 1993400030
    and the report out made that night is being corrected now. The report out indicated that the Council
    had voted unanimously to authorize the settlement of the Worker’s Compensation Claim at 50%
    of permanent disability, which was incorrect. The correct number that was settled and approved
    was for 58% of permanent disability.

    Mayor Kate provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff, recognition to
    Employee of the 3rd Quarter awarded to Jim O’Hagan, Park Equipment Mechanic, recognition to
    Team of the 3rd Quarter awarded to the Fire Department, Emergency Medical Services (EMS) and
    Operations team, the death of two American citizens during encounters with federal law
    enforcement agencies in Minnesota, and a land acknowledgment.
City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 10 MINUTES
  • DeMarco Garcia, Legal Aid of Marin, addressed the City Council regarding mobile home
     rent stabilization.
  • Julio Sontay addressed the City Council regarding mobile home rent stabilization.
  • Herman Privette addressed the City Council regarding mobile home rent stabilization.

City Attorney Rob Epstein provided a comment on the Open Time comments.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
1. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Piñon provided the following announcements and
   updates:
      • Black History Month - Proclamation on tonight’s Agenda and Library to host several
          events and have curated booklists
      • OpenGov Introduction - New user-friendly online permitting system to be implemented
          on February 23
      • U.S. 101 HOV hours to change in Marin and Sonoma counties in late February to 6–9
          a.m. and 3–6:30 p.m., Monday–Friday
      • Lynn Murphy, Police Mental Health Outreach Provider to be inducted into the YWCA
          Marin Women’s Hall of Fame
      • 2026 Public Service Award nominations open through February 6
      • February Events
               3rd Annual Downtown San Rafael Lunar New Year Hunt & Word Scramble
                 Challenge
               FeBREWary in Downtown San Rafael
      • Upcoming Public Meetings
               Pickleweed Advisory Committee to be held February 4, at 6 p.m., at the Albert J.
                 Boro Community Center
               Finance Subcommittee to be held February 10, at 10 a.m., at City Hall
               Board of Library of Trustees to be held February 10, at 6 p.m., at City Hall
               Fire Commission to be held February 11, at 4 p.m., at the Public Safety Center
               Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee to be held February 11, at 6 p.m.,
                 at City Hall
               Presidents Day Holiday Closure on February 16 - City Hall and other
                 nonemergency operations would be closed
               Next City Council meeting to be held Tuesday, February 17

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Vice Mayor Kertz reported on the Cal Cities Policy Committee, the Marin Women’s
          Hall of Fame honoring Lynn Murphy (Police Mental Health Outreach Provider), the
          Point-in-Time Count, and the “What About Age?” Exhibit.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a Marin County Council of Mayors and
          Councilmembers (MCCMC) meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the Cal Cities Policy Committee, the City’s
          Sea Level Rise Study results presentation, a Marin Clean Energy meeting, the Marin
                                                                                          2
          Women’s Hall of Fame, a Canal Celebration for the acquisition of 620 Canal Street,
          National Seed Swap Day, and a Marin Clean Energy Executive Committee meeting.
      •   Councilmember Bushey reported on a Marin Transit meeting and the Marin Women’s
          Hall of Fame.
      •   Mayor Kate reported on a Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit (SMART) meeting, a
          Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) meeting, and

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Gregory Andrew, Ken Dickinson

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Ken Dickinson

Mayor Kate commented on a typo in the Minutes on the Agenda to be corrected to 2026.

Staff responded to questions from public comment.

Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar, with the corrected typo (in the Minutes).

AYES:   Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:       None

2. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Closed Session and Regular City Council Meeting of January 20,
      2025 (CC)
      Approved Minute, with a correction to the typo on the Agenda

   b. Public Works Director Authority to Approve Public Works Project Plans
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2058: An Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code
      Section 2.12.290, Duties of the Supervisor of Public Works, to Clarify Delegation of
      Authority to the Supervisor of Public Works and Designees to Approve Plans,
      Specifications, and Designs for Public Works Projects; CEQA Determination: Exempt
      Pursuant to CEQA Guideline 15378(b)(5) (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2058

   c. Black History Month Proclamation
      Proclamation in Recognition of Black History Month (CM)
      Received and filed

   d. Agreements for Development of Impact Fee Nexus Studies
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to (1) Amend the Existing Professional Services
      Agreement with Keyser Marston Associates, Inc. for Additional Work Related to the Park
      Impact Fee Nexus Study for a New Not To Exceed Amount of $48,571, And (2) Enter Into
                                                                                       3
     a New Professional Services Agreement with Keyser Marston Associates, Inc. for
     Additional Development Impact Fee Nexus Studies In the Not To Exceed Amount of
     $76,560, for a Combined Total Amount Not To Exceed Amount Of $125,131 (CED)
     Adopted Resolution 15503

  e. Lincoln Avenue from Second Street to Paloma Avenue Safety Improvements Project
     Funding Agreement
     Resolution Authorizing The City Manager To Execute A Program Supplement Agreement
     With The California Department Of Transportation (Caltrans) For $180,000 In Local
     Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) Funds For The Lincoln Avenue From Second
     Street To Paloma Avenue Safety Improvements Project (PW)
     Adopted Resolution 15504

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
3. Other Agenda Items

  a. SAFE Team Pilot Program Overview and Recommendation for Program Continuation
     Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Amendment to the Agreement for
     Professional Services with Petaluma People Services Center to Extend the Term Through
     June 30, 2027 for Continuation of the Specialized Assistance for Everyone (SAFE) Team in
     a Not to Exceed Amount of $775,000 per Year Through the Term of the Contract Extension
     (PD)

     Police Chief David Spiller provided comments and introduced Police Captain Todd Berringer
     and Aziz Majid, Director of SAFE Team, Petaluma People Services Center who presented
     the Staff Report.

     Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

     Mayor Kate invited public comment.

     Speakers: Daryoush Davidi, Police Advisory & Accountability Committee, Ken Dickinson,
     Gregory Andrew

     Staff responded to questions from public comment.

     Councilmembers provided comments.

     Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
     Resolution authorizing the City Manager to execute an Amendment to the agreement for
     Professional Services with Petaluma People Services Center to extend the term through
     June 30, 2027 for continuation of the Specialized Assistance for Everyone (SAFE) Team in
     a not to exceed amount of $775,000 per year through the term of the contract extension.

     AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
     NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
     ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

     Adopted Resolution 15505


                                                                                        4
b. Fiscal Sustainability Framework
   City’s Budget Outlook, Framework for Fiscal Sustainability, and Preliminary Staff
   Recommendations Related to Potential 2026 Ballot Measures (Fin)

   Assistant City Manager Angela Robinson-Piñon provided comments and introduced
   Assistant City Manager John Stefanski and Finance Director Paul Navazio who presented
   the Staff Report and introduced Kurt Balo, FM3 Research who gave a presentation.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

   Councilmembers provided comments.

       Councilmember Hill moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to receive the presentation on
       the City’s budget outlook, framework for fiscal sustainability, and preliminary staff
       recommendations related to potential 2026 ballot measures.

   AYES:   Councilmembers:              Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
   NOES:   Councilmembers:              None
   ABSENT: Councilmembers:              None

       Received presentation

c. Downtown San Rafael Arts District Public Art Program 2025/2026 Implementation: Five
     Public Art Proposals
  i.    Resolution (1) Approving the Installation of Three Murals and One Temporary
        Sculpture at Four Public Locations in San Rafael, And (2) Authorizing the City Manager
        to Execute Art License Agreements with Each Artist, And Amending the Agreement
        with Local Edition Marketing, LLC to Increase the Total Not to Exceed to $260,000;
        And

 ii.      Resolution Approving the Installation of One Sculpture in San Rafael and Authorizing
          the City Manager to Execute an Art License Agreement with the Artist (CED/LR)

       Councilmember Eli Hill recused himself due to a conflict of interest in that he resides within
       500 feet of one of the sites identified in the staff report and left the Council Chambers.

   Library & Recreation Assistant Director Craig Veramay and Economic Development
   Program Manager Stacey Luamann presented the Staff Report and introduced Tari Loring
   and Sage Loring, Local Edition Creative who gave a presentation.

   Staff responded to questions from the City Council.

   Mayor Kate invited public comment.

   Speaker: Daniel Alm, West End Neighborhood Association

   Councilmembers provided comments.


                                                                                              5
      Vice Mayor Kertz moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      Resolution approving the installation of three murals and one temporary sculpture at four
      public locations in San Rafael, And (2) authorizing the City Manager to execute art license
      agreements with each artist, And amending the agreement with Local Edition Marketing,
      LLC to increase the total not to exceed to $260,000

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill

      Adopted Resolution 15506

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Vice Mayor Kertz seconded to adopt the Resolution
      Approving the Installation of One Sculpture in San Rafael and Authorizing the City Manager
      to Execute an Art License Agreement with the Artist

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Hill

      Adopted Resolution 15507

Councilmember Hill returned to the Council Chambers at 9:08 p.m.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION CONTINUED
None.

ADJOURNMENT:
Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 9:08 p.m.


                                                           __________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2026

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                            KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                             6
