                                                 MINUTES
                        SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2023

                                    REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                                              In-Person:
                                   San Rafael City Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                       Participate Virtually:
                     Watch on Zoom Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/CC-2023-01-17
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                        ID: 899 2635 9885
                        One Tap Mobile: US: +16699009128,,89926359885#

                            CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Assembly Bill 361, the City of San Rafael is offering teleconference without complying with
the procedural requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3). This meeting will be held in-person,
virtually using Zoom and is being streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting in-person:
  • Stay home if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms.
  • Face coverings are recommended for attendees.
  • Attendance will be limited to 50 percent of room capacity (no more than 90 persons) and all in-
      person attendees should socially distance as recommended by public health authorities. If the
      Chambers are 50% occupied, please participate online instead or utilize the audio feed in the lobby.
  • All attendees are encouraged to be fully vaccinated.

How to participate in the meeting virtually:
  • Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
      city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
  • Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
  • Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and press *9 to raise your hand, and *6
      to unmute yourself, then provide verbal public comment.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
 Present:       Councilmember Bushey
                Councilmember Hill
                Vice Mayor Llorens Gulati
                Mayor Kate
 Absent:        Councilmember Kertz
 Also Present: City Manager Jim Schutz
                City Attorney Rob Epstein
                Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi

    OPEN SESSION
    1. None.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. None.
Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited Deputy City Clerk Brenna Nurmi
to call the roll. All members of the City Council were present, except for Councilmember Kertz.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included tonight’s first meeting of 2023, the recent
record-breaking storms, gratitude to City staff and a land acknowledgement.

Deputy City Brenna Nurmi informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be
recorded and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom, and members of the public would
provide public comment either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for
community participation on the telephone, through Zoom and in-person.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Lori Schifrin, addressed the City Council congratulating DJ Allison, Bicycle and Pedestrian
     Advisory Committee (BPAC) and noted a Dining Under the Lights sign that is still up
     advertising the event.
  • Jeff Buscher, addressed the City Council regarding workers’ compensation.
  • Eva Chrysanthe, addressed the City Council regarding services at the Service Support Area.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
3. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

Councilmember Reports:

   •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on meetings and phone calls regarding the 400
       Canal Street tenants impacted by the fire.
   •   Councilmember Hill reported on an Economic Development Subcommittee meeting and a
       Coleman Elementary School tour.
   •   Councilmember Bushey reported on Marin Transit, Central Marin Sanitation and San Rafael
       Sanitation meetings.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on SMART.

City Manager Jim Schutz announced:
    • He addressed Jeff Buscher’s comment during Open Time for Public Expression
    • B Street Two-Way Conversion Improvements Project Update – Virtual Community Meeting
      to be held on Thursday, 01/18/2023 at 6 p.m.
    • Gratitude to Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) and Metropolitan Transportation
      Commission (MTC)
    • Citizens Oversight Committee opening at SMART

Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speakers: Al Vetere, Eva Chrysanthe, Lori Schifrin

Jim Schutz, City Manager responded to public comment.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment.

Speaker: Eva Chrysanthe

                                                                                         2
Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to approve the
Consent Calendar.

4. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the City Council Regular and Special Meetings of December 19, 2022
      (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19
      Pandemic (CA)
      Resolution 15182 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming
      the Need for the Use or Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the City’s
      Legislative Bodies During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to the Covid-19 Pandemic

   c. ADA Access Advisory Committee Appointments
      Reappoint Timothy Park and Appoint Francine Falk-Allen and Raed Al-Zaher to Fill Three
      Four-Year Terms to the End of October 2026 on the ADA Access Advisory Committee Due
      to the Expiration of Terms of Dianne Wolfe, Timothy Park and Fredric Divine (CC)
      Approved Appointments

   d. Pickleweed Advisory Committee Appointment
      Appoint Jairo Ceballos to Fill One Four-Year Term to the End of December 2026 on the
      Pickleweed Advisory Committee Due to the Expiration of Term of Salvador Avalos (CC)
      Approved Appointment

   e. Proposed Master Fee Schedule Update
      Adoption of Ordinance 2024: An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council
      Repealing and Replacing Chapter 3.34 of Title 3 of the San Rafael Municipal Code, Titled
      Fee and Service Charge Revenue/Cost Comparison System (CC)
      Final adoption of Ordinance 2024

   f. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2022 (Fin)
      Accepted report

AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Kertz

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
5. Special Presentation:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation to Daniel ‘DJ’ Allison for Service on the Bicycle and
      Pedestrian Advisory Committee (PW)

                                                                                              3
           Mayor Kate invited public comment.

           Speakers: Name Withheld, Eva Chrysanthe

           Mayor Kate presented the proclamation to Daniel ‘DJ’ Allison.

           Daniel ‘DJ’ Allison provided comments.

PUBLIC HEARING
6. Public Hearing:

   a. Award of Public Works Contracts
     i. Introduction of An Ordinance Amending Chapter 11.50 of Title 11 of the San Rafael
        Municipal Code, Titled Public Works Contract Policy (PW)

     ii.      Resolution Setting Dollar Amount Limits for Award of Public Works Contracts (PW)

           April Miller, Public Works Director introduced Joanna Kwok, Senior Civil Engineer who
           presented the Staff Report.

           Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

           Mayor Kate invited public comment, however there was none.

           Councilmembers provided comments.

           Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to waive
           reading, refer to it by title only, and introduce the ordinance; and the Deputy City Clerk read
           the title of the ordinance.

           An Ordinance of the City of San Rafael City Council Amending Chapter 11.50 of Title 11 of the
           San Rafael Municipal Code, Titled Public Works Contract Policy

           AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
           NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
           ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Kertz

           Waived reading, referred to it by title only, and introduced the Ordinance

           Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the resolution.

           AYES:   Councilmembers:           Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
           NOES:   Councilmembers:           None
           ABSENT: Councilmembers:           Kertz

           Resolution 15183 - Resolution Setting Dollar Amount Limits for Award of Public Works Contracts




                                                                                                   4
OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Tenant Relocation Assistance Benefits
      Resolution Adopting Policy on Relocation Assistance Benefits to Tenants Displaced by an
      Order to Vacate Under Health & Safety Code Section 17975 (CA)

      Genevieve Coyle, Assistant City Attorney presented the Staff Report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Al Vetere, Stephen Bingham, Eva Chrysanthe

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Kertz

      Resolution 15184 - Resolution Adopting Policy on Relocation Assistance Benefits to Tenants
      Displaced by an Order to Vacate Under Health & Safety Code Section 17975

   b. San Rafael Public Safety Alternative Response Team
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and Enter into a Professional
      Services Agreement with Petaluma People Services Center, for a 3-Year Pilot Alternative
      Response Program, Not to Exceed $775,000 Per Year with an Additional $100,000 in Start
      Up Costs in the First Year (PD)

      David Spiller, Police Chief introduced the item. Todd Berringer, Lieutenant presented the
      Staff Report.

      Staff, including Elece Hempel, Petaluma People Services Center responded to questions
      from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Stephen Bingham, Eva Chrysanthe

      Staff responded to public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt the
      resolution.
                                                                                         5
          AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
          NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
          ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Kertz

          Resolution 15185 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Negotiate and Enter into a
          Professional Services Agreement with Petaluma People Services Center, for a 3-Year Pilot
          Alternative Response Program, Not to Exceed $775,000 Per Year with an Additional $100,000
          in Start Up Costs in the First Year

    SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
    Chair Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

    Member Bushey moved and Member Hill seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

    1. Consent Calendar:

       a. Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report
          Acceptance of Successor Agency Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
          December 31, 2022 (Fin)
          Accepted report

    AYES:   Members:        Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Chair Kate
    NOES:   Members:        None
    ABSENT: Members:        Kertz

    ADJOURNMENT:
    Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 8:56 p.m.



                                                             ___________________________
                                                                LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                                APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2023

                                                       _____________________________________
                                                                 KATE COLIN, Mayor
.




                                                                                               6
