                                                 MINUTES

                    SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL - MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2026

                                   REGULAR MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                                 San Rafael City Hall, Council Chambers
                                1400 Fifth Avenue, San Rafael, CA 94901

                                            Watch Online:
                         Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/city-council-1
                         Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                   Listen by phone: (669) 444-9171
                                         ID: 863-4489-1398#

This meeting will be held in-person.            This   meeting    is   being   streamed   to   YouTube    at
www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:
  • You are welcome to come to the meeting and provide public comment in person. Each speaker will
      have 2-minutes to provide public comment per agenda item.
  • Submit your comments by email to city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org by 4:00 p.m. the day of the
      meeting.

If you experience technical difficulties during the meeting, please contact city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.

    Present:            Councilmember Bushey
                        Councilmember Hill
                        Vice Mayor Kertz
                        Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:             Mayor Kate
    Also Present:       Acting City Manager Paul Navazio
                        City Attorney Robert Epstein
                        City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    Mayor Pro Tem Kertz called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara
    to call the roll.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that no reportable action taken in the Closed Session held
    earlier that evening.

    Mayor Pro Tem Kertz provided opening remarks which included gratitude to City Staff.

    City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the in-person meeting would also be recorded
    and streamed live to YouTube and through Zoom. She noted the two-minute timer for public
    comment and closed captioning on Zoom.

    OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION – 10 MINUTES
      • Elena Garnaché addressed the City Council regarding stop signs at Smith Ranch Road and
         Yosemite.
   •   Jo, Small Business Administration, addressed the City Council indicating that Marin County
       was added to the Disaster Declaration (CA 21431), which allows eligibility for homeowners,
       renters, businesses and nonprofits to seek disaster loan assistance from the King Tide
       floodings of late December/early January.
   •   Stephen Bingham addressed the City Council regarding SB 707.
   •   Heidi Merchen addressed the City Council regarding SB 707.
   •   Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding SeeClickFix, sidewalks, street vendors
       and potholes.
   •   Christian Viebrok addressed the City Council regarding the Scouts in attendance at tonight’s
       meeting working on their communications merit badge.

CITY MANAGER AND COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
1. City Manager and Councilmember Reports:

   Acting City Manager Paul Navazio provided the following announcements and updates:
       • Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program available to those impacted by
          the King Tide incident
       • Summer Activity Guide - Registration started today
       • Northgate Specific Plan RFP (Request for Proposals) due March 16
       • OpenGov, new City permitting system now live

   City Councilmember Reports:
       • Councilmember Bushey reported on a San Rafael Sanitation District board meeting, a
          Measure P Subcommittee meeting, and a Marin County Transit Board of Directors
          meeting.
       • Councilmember Hill reported on a Measure P Subcommittee meeting and a Marin
          County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers (MCCMC) meeting.
       • Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on the San Rafael Chamber of Commerce
          Economic Forum, a Canal Promise Neighborhood Steering Committee meeting, Marin
          Clean Energy (MCE) board and executive committee meetings, and a Marin County
          Transit Board of Directors meeting.
       • Mayor Pro Tem Kertz reported on a Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority board
          meeting, a Homelessness Subcommittee meeting, and an MCCMC Legislative meeting.

Mayor Pro Tem Kertz invited public comment; however, there was none.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Pro Tem Kertz invited public comment.

Speakers: Name Withheld, Tammy Edmonson, MVFREE, Edward Rusky, MVFREE, Jason, Stephen
Bingham, Daniel Alm, Police Advisory & Accountability Committee

Councilmember Bushey moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to approve the Consent
Calendar.

AYES:    Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
NOES:    Councilmembers:        None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Mayor Kate
2. Consent Calendar Items:
                                                                                         Page 2 of 6
   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of the Special Closed Session and Regular City Council Meetings of
      February 17, 2026 (CC)
      Approved Minutes as submitted

   b. Women’s History Month Proclamation
      Proclamation in Recognition of Women’s History Month (CM)
      Received and filed

   c. Parking Ordinance
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2059: An Ordinance Amending San Rafael Municipal Code, to
      Repeal Chapter 5.74 Bail Schedule for Violations of the San Rafael Municipal Code (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2059

   d. Parking Ordinance
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2060: An Ordinance Amending the San Rafael Municipal
      Code, to Amend Chapter 5.48 Regarding Parking in Off-Street Parking Facilities (CC)
      Final Adoption of Ordinance 2060

   e. City Quarterly Investment Report
      Acceptance of City of San Rafael Quarterly Investment Report for the Quarter Ending
      December 31, 2025 (Fin)
      Accepted report

   f. Pickleweed Library Furniture Purchase
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Purchase Order with KBM Hogue
      for the Purchase of Furniture for the Pickleweed Library in an Amount Not to Exceed
      $121,879 (LR)
      Adopted Resolution 15517

   g. 2025 Police Advisory & Accountability Committee Annual Report
      Accept the 2025 Police Advisory & Accountability Committee Annual Report (PD)
      Accepted report

   h. Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project Notice of Completion
      Accept Completion of the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project, City Project No.
      C661137610, and Authorize the City Clerk to File the Notice of Completion (PW)
      Accepted completion of the Pickleweed Park Enhancement Project and authorized the City Clerk to
      file the Notice of Completion

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
3. Other Agenda Items:

      a. Canal Neighborhood Active Transportation Enhancement Project
        i.  Resolution Finding that the Canal Neighborhood Active Transportation
            Enhancement Project is Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
            (CEQA) Pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 21080.25(b)(1) and Section
            15301 of the State CEQA Guidelines (PW)


                                                                                          Page 3 of 6
    ii.   Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Program
          Supplement Agreement with Caltrans to Receive State Funds

  Public Works Director April Miller commented on the agenda item and introduced Grey
  Melgard, Senior Civil Engineer who presented the Staff Report.
  Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

  Mayor Pro Tem Kertz invited public comment.

  Speakers: Name Withheld, Name Withheld

  Staff responded to questions from public comment.

  Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt a
   Resolution finding that the Canal Neighborhood Active Transportation Enhancement
   Project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Public
   Resources Code Section 21080.25(b)(1) and Section 15301 of the State CEQA Guidelines.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Mayor Kate

   Adopted Resolution 15518

   Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Hill seconded to adopt a
   Resolution approving and authorizing the City Manager to execute a Program Supplement
   Agreement with the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) for $630,000 in
   Active Transportation Program (ATP) funds for the project.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Mayor Kate

   Adopted Resolution 15519

b. Fiscal Year 2025-26 Mid-Year Budget Update
   Fiscal Year 2025-26 Mid-Year Budget Update for the Second Quarter Ending December
   31, 2025, and Approval of Resolutions Authorizing Selected Mid-Year Supplemental
   Budget Appropriations Totaling $569,805, Authorizing Application of Credit Card
   Processing Fees to Selected Credit Card Transactions, and Amendments to Applicable
   Salary Schedules to Reflect FY 2025-26 Mid-Year Personnel Changes (Fin)

   Acting City Manager Paul Navazio presented the Staff Report.

  Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

  Mayor Pro Tem Kertz invited public comment; however, there was none.

                                                                                  Page 4 of 6
   Councilmembers provided comments.

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to accept the FY 2025-
   26 Mid-Year Budget Update, presenting revenue and expenditure results through the
   second quarter of the current fiscal year (through the accounting period ended December
   31, 2025).

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Mayor Kate

   Accepted report

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Llorens Gulati seconded to adopt a
   Resolution authorizing supplemental FY2025-26 mid-year budget appropriations totaling
   $569,085 across all funds.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Mayor Kate

   Adopted Resolution 15520

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt a Resolution
   authorizing the City Manager or designee to apply a credit card processing fee for payments
   received through credit card, debit card, or electronic transfer transactions to selected
   transactions.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Mayor Kate

   Adopted Resolution 15521

   Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt a Resolution
   approving personnel classification and salary resolution updates related to traffic
   engineering staffing and temporary/seasonal/retiree minimum wage adjustments.

  AYES:   Councilmembers:          Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
  NOES:   Councilmembers:          None
  ABSENT: Councilmembers:          Mayor Kate

   Adopted Resolution 15522

c. Mid-Year Updates to the City Council Three-Year Strategic Plan Fiscal Year 2025-26 Work
   Plan
   Resolution Adopting Mid-Year Updates to the City Council Three-Year Strategic Plan
   Fiscal Year 2025-26 Work Plan (CM)

   Assistant City Manager John Stefanski commented on the agenda item and introduced
   Vedika Ahuja, Product Manager who presented the Staff Report.
                                                                           Page 5 of 6
      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Pro Tem Kertz invited public comment.

      Speakers: Marianne Nannestad, Name Withheld

      Staff responded to questions from public comment.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Bushey seconded to adopt the
      Resolution adopting Mid-Year Updates to the City Council Three-Year Strategic Plan Fiscal
      Year 2025-26 Work Plan.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Pro Tem Kertz
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         Mayor Kate

      Adopted Resolution 15523

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION CONTINUED
  • Name Withheld addressed the City Council regarding his impression that the City Council
     is reluctant to engage the community in performing acts that they perform themselves, like
     with planting trees and in other instances.

ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Pro Tem Kertz adjourned the meeting at 8:22 p.m.


                                                           __________________________
                                                           LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                            APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2026

                                                     _____________________________________
                                                        RACHEL KERTZ, VICE Mayor




                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
