                                               MINUTES

                      SAN RAFAEL CITY COUNCIL – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021

                                REGULAR MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                       Watch on Webinar: https://tinyurl.com/cc-2021-11-01
                       Watch on YouTube: www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael
                                 Listen by phone: (669) 900-9128
                                       ID: 817-3692-0337#

                         CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) ADVISORY NOTICE
In response to Executive Order N-29-20, the City of San Rafael will no longer offer an in-person
meeting location for the public to attend. This meeting will be held virtually using Zoom and is being
streamed to YouTube at www.youtube.com/cityofsanrafael.

How to participate in the meeting:

   •   Submit public comment in writing before 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting to
       city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org.
   •   Join the Zoom webinar and use the 'raise hand' feature to provide verbal public comment.
   •   Dial-in to Zoom's telephone number using the meeting ID and provide verbal public comment.

Any member of the public who needs accommodations should contact the City Clerk (email
city.clerk@cityofsanrafael.org or phone at 415-485-3066) who will use their best efforts to provide
reasonable accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public
safety in accordance with the City procedure for resolving reasonable accommodation requests.

    Present:          Mayor Kate
                      Vice Mayor Bushey
                      Councilmember Hill
                      Councilmember Kertz
                      Councilmember Llorens Gulati
    Absent:           None
    Also Present:     City Manager Jim Schutz
                      City Attorney Robert Epstein
                      City Clerk Lindsay Lara

    OPEN SESSION - (669) 900-9128 ID: 895-5623-2853# - 6:15 P.M.
    1. Mayor Kate to announced Closed Session items.

    CLOSED SESSION
    2. Closed Session:

       a. Conference with Legal Counsel
          Existing Litigation – Government Code section 54946,9(d)(a)
          Arnold-Ince v. City of San Rafael, Marin Superior Court No. CIV 2000926

    Mayor Kate called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and invited City Clerk Lindsay Lara to call the
    roll. All members of the City Council were present.

    City Attorney Robert Epstein announced that the City Council voted to approve a settlement of
$75,000 in the matter of Arnold-Ince v. City of San Rafael, Marin Superior Court No. CIV 2000926
in exchange for the plaintiff’s dismissal with prejudice and complete release of all claims with a
waiver of civil code section 1542.

Mayor Kate provided opening remarks, which included an announcement of Native American
Heritage Month and a land acknowledgment.

City Clerk Lindsay Lara informed the community that the meeting would be recorded and streamed
live to YouTube and through Zoom and members of the public would provide public comment
either on the telephone or through Zoom. She explained the process for community participation
on the telephone or through Zoom.

OPEN TIME FOR PUBLIC EXPRESSION
  • Eva Chrysanthe addressed the council regarding the death of an unhoused person in Marin
     and homelessness in San Rafael

CITY MANAGER’S REPORT:
3. City Manager’s Report:

   •   City Manager Jim Schutz announced
           o Townhall on Housing Element on Thursday, November 4, 2021 at 6:30 p.m.
           o Day of the Dead event on Saturday, November 6, 2021 at 3:00 p.m.
           o Report on Caltrans Bridge Replacement Project

   •   Emergency Management Coordinator Quinn Gardner reported on the recent storm and
       emergency preparedness

COUNCILMEMBER REPORTS:
(including AB 1234 Reports on Meetings and Conferences Attended at City Expense)
4. Councilmember Reports:

   •   Vice Mayor Bushey reported on Marin County Council of Mayors and Councilmembers
       (MCCMC) Water Committee and commented that she spoke to Glenwood Elementary
       School’s third grade classroom
   •   Councilmember Hill reported on the MCCMC Water Committee, and announced his
       upcoming attendance at Glenwood Elementary’s third grade classroom to speak to students
       for Children for Change
   •   Councilmember Kertz reported on the Marin County Point-in-Time event preparation,
       United Against Hate Week and the Marin Wildfire Prevention Authority (MWPA). She
       commented that she would be attending Vallecito Elementary School for a cleanup event.
   •   Councilmember Llorens Gulati reported on Marin Clean Energy (MCE), Climate Action Plan
       Quarterly Forum, MCCMC Climate Action Committee, Canal Collaborative, and met with
       Supervisor Dennis Rodoni regarding East San Rafael updates.
   •   Mayor Kate reported on Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM), Safe Routes to Schools
       (SRTS) Ad-hoc Committee, Marin Transit and BayWAVE.

CONSENT CALENDAR:
Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none.

Councilmember Kertz moved and Vice Mayor Bushey seconded to approve the Consent Calendar.

                                                                                           2
5. Consent Calendar Items:

   a. Approval of Minutes
      Approve Minutes of City Council / Successor Agency Regular Meeting of Monday, October
      18, 2021 (CC)
      Approved minutes as submitted

   b. Use of Teleconferencing for Public Meetings During State of Emergency
      Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and Confirming the Need for
      Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San Rafael City Council
      and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency Relating to
      the COVID-19 Pandemic (CA)
      Adopted Resolution 14990 - Resolution Pursuant to Assembly Bill 361 Making Findings and
      Confirming the Need for Continued Use of Teleconferencing to Hold Public Meetings of the San
      Rafael City Council and City Boards and Commissions During the Continuing State of Emergency
      Relating to the COVID-19 Pandemic

   c. Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project Environmental Consulting Services
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
      Professional Services with LSA Associates, Inc. for Environmental Consulting Services for
      the Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project in an Amount Not to Exceed $260,350 (CD)
      Adopted Resolution 14991 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute
      an Agreement for Professional Services with LSA Associates, Inc. for Environmental Consulting
      Services for the Northgate Mall Redevelopment Project in an Amount Not to Exceed $260,350

   d. Agreement for Project Specific and On-Call Planning Consulting Services
      Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement for
      Professional Services with MIG, Inc. for Project Specific and On-Call Contract Planning and
      Environmental Consulting Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $217,000 (CD)
      Adopted Resolution 14992 - Resolution Approving and Authorizing the City Manager to Execute
      an Agreement for Professional Services with MIG, Inc. for Project Specific and On-Call Contract
      Planning and Environmental Consulting Services in an Amount Not to Exceed $217,000

   e. Information Technology Services Agreement Renewal
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General Service Agreement with
      Addendum with Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from November 1, 2021
      Through October 31, 2022 In An Amount Not to Exceed $1,027,260 (DS)
      Adopted Resolution 14993 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute a General
      Service Agreement with Addendum with Xantrion, Inc., for Information Technology Services from
      November 1, 2021 Through October 31, 2022 In An Amount Not to Exceed $1,027,260

   f. Agreement to Participate in Emergency Medical Service/Ambulance Transport Service
      Cost Recovery Program
      Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement to Allow the San Rafael
      Fire Department to Participate in an Intergovernmental Transfer with The California
      Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) In Order to Increase the Department’s
      Reimbursement for Emergency Medical Service Ambulance Transport Services for the
      Service Period of January 1, 2021 Through December 31, 2021 (FD)
      Adopted Resolution 14994 - Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Execute an Agreement
      to Allow the San Rafael Fire Department to Participate in an Intergovernmental Transfer with The
      California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) In Order to Increase the Department’s
                                                                                               3
      Reimbursement for Emergency Medical Service Ambulance Transport Services for the Service
      Period of January 1, 2021 Through December 31, 2021

AYES:   Councilmembers:       Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
NOES:   Councilmembers:       None
ABSENT: Councilmembers:       None

SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS
6. Special Presentations:

   a. Presentation of Proclamation Supporting United Against Hate Week and Support for Not In
      Our Town (CM)

      Mayor Kate presented a Proclamation

      Thomas Wong provided comments and presented a video

      Councilmember Kertz provided closing comments

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Eva Chrysanthe

      Mayor Kate closed public comment

   b. Presentation by Marin County on Furthering Fair Housing (CD)

      Community Development Director Ali Giudice introduced Liz Darby and Leelee Thompson
      from the County of Marin who gave a presentation

      Staff responded to questions from the Council

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Damian, John Reyolds, Eva Chrysanthe

      Mayor Kate closed public comment

      Staff responded to questions from the public

      Councilmembers provided comments

   c. Presentation by Caltrans on Proposed Roundabout at Freitas Parkway Off-Ramp (PW)

      Public Works Director Bill Guerin introduced Wajahat Nyaz, Caltrans and Matt Korve,
      AECOM, who gave a presentation

      Staff responded to questions from the Council

                                                                                        4
      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Warren Wells, Marin County Bicycle Coalition, Name withheld, Kate Powers, Lori,
      Grace Geraghty, Responsible Growth in Marin, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Eva
      Chrysanthe

      Mayor Kate closed public comment

      Staff responded to questions from the public

      Councilmembers provided comments

OTHER AGENDA ITEMS
7. Other Agenda Items:

   a. Notice of Funding Availability for Affordable Housing
      Informational Report on the Status and Scope of City of San Rafael Notice of Funding
      Availability (CD)
      Accepted report

      Jacob Noonan, Housing Program Manager presented the staff report.

      Staff responded to questions from Councilmembers.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment.

      Speakers: Grace Geraghty, Bill Carney, Sustainable San Rafael, Name Withheld, Sunny Lee,
      Eva Chrysanthe

      Staff responded to questions from the public.

      Councilmembers provided comments.

      Councilmember Llorens Gulati moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to accept the
      report.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:         Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:         None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:         None

   b. Approval of the Memorandum of Understanding with SEIU Local 1021 Child Care
      Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining to Compensation and
      Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 Child Care (November 1, 2021 Through October
      31, 2024) (HR)
      Adopted Resolution 14995 - Resolution Approving a Memorandum of Understanding Pertaining
      to Compensation and Working Conditions for SEIU Local 1021 Child Care (November 1, 2021
      Through October 31, 2024)

      Sylvia Gonzalez-Shelton, Human Resources Operations Manager presented the staff report.

      Mayor Kate invited public comment; however, there was none
                                                                                         5
      Councilmember Hill moved and Councilmember Kertz seconded to adopt the resolution.

      AYES:   Councilmembers:        Bushey, Hill, Kertz, Llorens Gulati & Mayor Kate
      NOES:   Councilmembers:        None
      ABSENT: Councilmembers:        None

SAN RAFAEL SUCCESSOR AGENCY:
1. Consent Calendar: - None.

ADJOURNMENT:

Mayor Kate adjourned the meeting at 10:10 p.m.



                                                        ___________________________
                                                          LINDSAY LARA, City Clerk

                                          APPROVED THIS _____DAY OF____________, 2021

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                           KATE COLIN, Mayor




                                                                                         6
