Camping Ordinance Implementation Approach & Plan - San Rafael
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Site map
San Rafael
Toggle mobile menu
Primary menu links
Residents
Businesses
Visitors
Departments
News
Events
Contact
Action toolbar
Translate
Translate language select
Search
San Rafael
Camping Ordinance Implementation Approach & Plan
Posted on December 14, 2023
Human-Centered Approach
The City is preparing to implement the City’s new camping ordinance adopted on July 17, 2023, with court-mandated conditions. Staff are collaborating with service providers and members of the unhoused community (Marin County Lived Experience Advisory Board) to facilitate a human-centered, trauma informed approach, which will focus on voluntary compliance and incentives/assistance first, and enforcement as a last resort.
The City will automatically delay any pre-scheduled enforcement deadline if Marin County Health and Human Services activates their Severe Weather Emergency Shelter (SWES) operations, within 48 hours before or 24 hours after the enforcement deadline. If such a delay occurs, affected campers will be notified. This planned timeline is subject to change based on direction received from the Court. Any revisions to this plan will be made and posted on this website.
Implementation Plan/Timeline:
Step 1: Issue New Administrative Orders Prohibiting Camping on Lindaro Street and New Camping (December 6, 2023)
The City Manager recently executed two new administrative orders which:
Prohibit camping
along Lindaro Street and give individuals camping at that location a reasonable period of time to relocate.
Prohibit new camping
along the Mahon Creek Path, Andersen Dr and Francisco Blvd W.
The City will erect signage at the locations, akin to parking limit signs, that designate the new regulations where camping is prohibited.
Step 2: Needs Assessment & Outreach Event (December 11-13, 2023)
The City’s nonprofit partners (Downtown Streets Team, Ritter Center, Homeward Bound, St. Vincent’s) are administering a needs assessment survey with individuals at the encampments on Lindaro Street, Mahon Creek Path, Francisco Blvd. W, and Andersen Drive (from Irwin to Rice).
The event will include free food and gift cards for completed assessment surveys. City staff are also conducting outreach to inform the campers about the new administrative orders and the judge’s court ordered procedures related to camping site size, spacing requirements, and locations.
Step 3: Relocation Process (December 2023 – January 2024)
The City will incentivize voluntary moves that occur prior to the final move date, by providing gift cards. The City will also provide moving assistance, trash removal, storage, additional porta-potties and hand washing stations.
Pursuant to the Court’s order, the City is providing a reasonable period of time for campers to select a campsite from the
court ordered map
and register their site selection with the Homeless Union. The Homeless Union will then provide the City with a list of registered campers to selected camp sites.
Phase 1— Lindaro Street Individuals (Mid-December – early January)
The goal is voluntary compliance from individuals currently camping on Lindaro St, to move to marked and mapped campsites in the mapped encampment area, by January 5th, that meet regulations allowed by the Court.
Phase 2—Mahon Creek Path and Francisco Blvd. W (mid-January 2024)
The goal is voluntary compliance from individuals currently camping on Mahon Creek Path and Francisco Blvd. West, to move to marked and mapped campsites in the mapped encampment area, by January 12th, that meet regulations allowed by the Court.
Phase 3—Andersen (between Rice and Irwin) (end January 2024)
The goal is voluntary compliance from individuals currently camped on Andersen between Rice and Irwin to move into marked and mapped campsites, by Friday, January 19th, that meet regulations allowed by the Court.
Recent news
Art Burst Grant
Posted on April 9, 2026
Work Started: Lincoln Avenue Safety Improvements at Wilson Court and Brookdale Avenue Project
Posted on April 9, 2026
Garden Workdays Kick Off the Planting Season
Posted on April 9, 2026
Started 4/8/26: Phase 2 Embarcadero One-Way Conversion Pilot Project
Posted on April 9, 2026
Engine 51 Connects with Students at Laurel Dell Elementary
Posted on April 9, 2026
View all news
Helpful
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Size
+
Reset
a
−
Contact
City Hall
1400 Fifth Avenue
San Rafael, CA 94901
Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Monday-Friday
Contact Links
Directory
Feedback
Access Links
Accessibility
Sitemap
Social Media
Facebook
Instagram
X
Additional City Social Media Accounts
Powered by
This content is for decoration only
skip decoration
.
Close window
Search Site
Search
Close window
