Sanctioned Camping Area - San Rafael
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Site map
San Rafael
Toggle mobile menu
Primary menu links
Residents
Businesses
Visitors
Departments
News
Events
Contact
Action toolbar
Translate
Translate language select
Search
San Rafael
Menu
Homelessness
City Response to Homelessness
Sanctioned Camping Area
City Response to Homelessness
Supporting Unhoused Community Members
Report Issues
Community Questions About Homelessness
Back
Ordinance Regulating Encampments
Sanctioned Camping Area
Interim Shelter Site at 350 Merrydale Road
Back
Frequently Asked Questions
Back
Seeds of Hope
Daniel Cooperman
Community Services Division Director
(415) 256-5565
endhomelessness@cityofsanrafael.org
1400 Fifth Avenue
San Rafael, CA 94901
Sanctioned Camping Area
San Rafael
operates
a sanctioned camping program along the northern
portion
of the Mahon Creek Path. This temporary program, funded through the State's Encampment Resolution Fund Grant Program, provides stability, safety, and on-site services for residents while connecting them to long-term housing solutions.
Sanctioned Camping Area Background
For many years, individuals experiencing homelessness have camped along the Mahon Creek Path and nearby areas.
When the City banned camping at
Albert Park
, many people relocated to Mahon Creek Path and Lindaro Street.
In
December 2023
, camping was also prohibited along Lindaro Street because it is a school route. As a result, more individuals moved to the Mahon Creek Path and Andersen Drive areas.
In 2024, the City of San Rafael and County of Marin received a
$6 million Encampment Resolution Fund grant
. The funding requires alternative shelter in the same general area as the existing Mahon Creek Path encampment.
After a year-long search, the City was unable to identify a different viable site. The sanctioned camping area was therefore established at Mahon Creek Path. The program is
temporary
, with the goal of connecting people to housing through dedicated services and support.
Watch the transformation of the Mahon Creek Path into the Sanctioned Camping Area and see how the space was redesigned to create safety and stability!
(Credit: FS Global)
Who Can Use the Sanctioned Camping Area?
The sanctioned camping area is limited to individuals who lived in the Mahon Creek Path encampment
before January 31, 2024
(the ERF3 grant application date). The sanctioned camping area has 50 tent sites for enrolled participants and be located on the northern portion of the Mahon Creek Path.
Participation in the sanctioned camping area is voluntary and individuals were prioritized based on the following criteria (in rank order):
Plaintiffs in Boyd v. City of San Rafael
Assessment Score using the
Vulnerability Index – Service Prioritization Decision Assistance Tool (VI-SPDAT)
or the new
Marin Assessment for Vulnerability – Single Adult (MAV-SA)
Length of time residing in the Mahon Creek Path Area encampment
Previous participation in the City’s Service Support Area
The City provided notice to all Mahon Creek Path Area encampment residents regarding the new sanctioned camping program, including details on how to register to participate, the code of conduct required to participate, and the requirements for individuals on the northern portion of the path to work with the City to replace their tents and to adjust their location to an approved camping spot.
The City has also created a no-camping buffer along the southern portion of the Mahon Creek Path. This is a best practice and seeks to limit individuals from taking advantage of services while not abiding by the requirements of the program.
Services Provided at the Sanctioned Camping Area
Participants have access to a range of services and supports, including:
Case Management:
Three full-time housing case managers and one outreach worker from Marin County Health & Human Services.
San Rafael SAFE Team:
Crisis response for mental health, substance use, or non-emergency medical needs.
Weekly Shower Service
Portable Restrooms with Handwashing Stations
Garbage Pickup & Dumpsters:
Residents must keep items within their tent area.
Pet Area:
Designated space for dogs with waste bags and trash bins.
Designated Smoking Area
to reduce fire risks.
Safety and Security
24/7 security personnel are on-site to assist with resident safety, uphold the no-visitor policy of the camping location, notify emergency services as needed, and monitor the overall location. Additional safety measures include:
Controlled access: Fencing surrounds the site, with gates at Lincoln Ave and Francisco Blvd West.
Visitor Policy: No visitors are allowed inside the sanctioned camping area.
Fire Prevention Fire extinguishers are placed throughout the site. The San Rafael Fire Department conducts regular inspections.
Sanctioned Encampment Area (SCA)
Dashboard
The Sanctioned Camping Area has provided a safer and more stable environment, and the outcomes show it works. Of the residents, 86 percent are either housed or actively working toward housing. Fifty-four percent have increased their income through employment or General Assistance, and 82 percent are enrolled in benefits such as Medi-Cal or CalFresh. One in four residents are engaged in treatment services that address mental health and substance use.
Together, these results show that the SCA provides real pathways to stability.
Helpful
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Size
+
Reset
a
−
Contact
City Hall
1400 Fifth Avenue
San Rafael, CA 94901
Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Monday-Friday
Contact Links
Directory
Feedback
Access Links
Accessibility
Sitemap
Social Media
Facebook
Instagram
X
Additional City Social Media Accounts
Powered by
This content is for decoration only
skip decoration
.
Close window
Search Site
Search
Close window
