Homelessness News Update - November 21, 2024 - San Rafael
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Site map
San Rafael
Toggle mobile menu
Primary menu links
Residents
Businesses
Visitors
Departments
News
Events
Contact
Action toolbar
Translate
Translate language select
Search
San Rafael
Homelessness News Update – November 21, 2024
Posted on November 21, 2024
Camping Ordinance Enforcement Approach
The City has established a regular approach to noticing and enforcement under the City’s
camping ordinance
.
Enforcement activities of the Camping Ordinance relating to violations of the
campsite size maximums, setback requirements, and/or unpermitted structures and building materials
will take place each week on the days outlined in the diagram below.
The City may require less than 24-hour notice to comply with the camping ordinance if exigent circumstances exist, as defined by the City. You can learn more about this and more information on the City’s
Camping Enforcement Plan
webpage.
To report any potential camping ordinance violations, please email City staff at
endhomelessness@cityofsanrafael.org
. Staff will review the location for compliance enforcement and reach out to unhoused individuals for referrals to services.
Update on the Sanctioned Camping Area at Mahon Creek Path
The City’s Sanctioned Camping Area established on a portion of the Mahon Creek Path, has been in operation for six weeks since its opening on October 4th, 2024. The program currently has 49 participants residing in the temporary safe sleeping site.
The program is managed by FS Global, which oversees operations and logistics, with 24/7 security provided by Defense Block Security. Each participant resides in a 10’x10’ canopy tent, equipped with cots and sleeping gear. The site is supplied with potable drinking water, portable restroom service, and regular garbage collection. The site management team has winterized each individual tent by covering each with heavy-duty plastic to prevent rain from pooling on top and enhance water resistance. Additionally, the team works daily to ensure that all drains within the site are clear of debris to prevent water buildup. Within the next week, the community canopy will be heated, providing participants a space to warm up during colder weather.
FS Global also hosts weekly Town Hall meetings to provide updates, share information about upcoming service fairs and events, and address participant concerns, fostering trust and communication. On Thanksgiving Day, Sandi McMillion will provide prepared meals to participants, made possible through a generous donation from one of the Ritter Center’s supporters. For inquiries on supporting the Sanctioned Camping Area, please contact City staff at
mel.burnette@cityofsanrafael.org
.
The photos above show the blue canopy tents that each participant has been assigned, as well as one of the security guard stations within the site.
Homelessness Solutions Working Group
City staff hosted the first Working Group meeting this past Tuesday, November 12th, in-person at the EOC. The meeting was facilitated by Lorenzo Jones, with welcome remarks by Mayor Colin and Councilmember Kertz, as members of the Homelessness and Housing Subcommittee. 25 members of the working group attended and participated in the meeting.
Staff gave a presentation on previous legal challenges faced and the impacts on calls for service, camping ordinance amendments and the enforcement approach, as well as an update on the Sanctioned Camping Area and overview of Marin County’s Continuum of Care. You can watch a recording of the
staff presentation here
.
Attendees participated in a “blue-sky” group discussion activity, where they gave ideas and suggestions on the following three topics:
Camping on Public Property
Shelters & Transitional Housing
Services & Programs
Responses from this activity will be used for further discussion at the next meeting in January. Working Group members were also encouraged to connect with their neighbors and community to ask for their own “Blue Sky” ideas and to share those with the City by the end of the year.
Thanksgiving Seeds of Hope Luncheon
The fourth Seeds of Hope Luncheon of the year took place on Monday, November 18, at the B Street Community Center. Hosted by the City of San Rafael and Marin County Health and Human Services, this quarterly event aims to bring together individuals, local businesses, and organizations that are dedicated to positively impacting the lives of those experiencing homelessness in San Rafael.
This week’s luncheon was the largest since its inception in 2021, with 432 attendees and over 30 service providers offering a wide range of support, including veterinary care, medical assistance, haircuts, massages, housing resources, case management, and books provided by the San Rafael Library.
A memorial was also set up to honor the man who coined the name Seeds of Hope in 2021 during his own experience with homelessness. Tragically, he passed away last week and will be honored later this week at a memorial service.
Photography Exhibit Depicts ‘Dignity in Homelessness’
An intimate and moving portrayal of life on the streets and the journeys of Marin County individuals experiencing homelessness is now on display at the Marin County Civic Center.
The compelling exhibit by San Rafael photographer Lea Del Pomo, called I Will Not Be Forgotten: The Dignity in Homelessness, will be displayed through January 31, 2025, in the first- and third-floor galleries inside the Civic Center, at 3501 Civic Center Drive, San Rafael.
The exhibit features some 50 photographs chronicling the life of being homeless, the places called home, the transformative moments of those newly housed, and the outreach efforts to those on the streets by local agencies. Alongside each photograph, visitors will find selected personal stories in the words of those depicted, accompanied by a pair of their shoes — serving as powerful symbols of the steps taken through their journeys.
Visit this link to
read the full news release
.
Recent news
Art Burst Grant
Posted on April 9, 2026
Work Started: Lincoln Avenue Safety Improvements at Wilson Court and Brookdale Avenue Project
Posted on April 9, 2026
Garden Workdays Kick Off the Planting Season
Posted on April 9, 2026
Started 4/8/26: Phase 2 Embarcadero One-Way Conversion Pilot Project
Posted on April 9, 2026
Engine 51 Connects with Students at Laurel Dell Elementary
Posted on April 9, 2026
View all news
Helpful
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Size
+
Reset
a
−
Contact
City Hall
1400 Fifth Avenue
San Rafael, CA 94901
Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Monday-Friday
Contact Links
Directory
Feedback
Access Links
Accessibility
Sitemap
Social Media
Facebook
Instagram
X
Additional City Social Media Accounts
Powered by
This content is for decoration only
skip decoration
.
Close window
Search Site
Search
Close window
